a system and method is disclosed for obtaining measurements of the electric fields around skin wounds and lesions on mammals noninvasively . the system and method is comprised of a vibrating metallic probe tip that is placed close to the skin in the air . by applying a series of known voltages to the metal probe tip or to the skin beneath it , the skin &# 39 ; s local surface potential can be measured and the lateral electric field can be calculated from the spatial distribution of surface potential measurements . surface artifacts that can affect the measurements are removed and active feedback is used to maintain a constant distance between the probe and the skin surface .
fig2 depicts the probe vibrator and head that is used in one embodiment of the present invention . probe head 201 is comprised of one or many small metal plates that each have a surface area of 0 . 2 mm 2 , but a different size can be used and still be within the scope of the present invention . each plate is connected to a low noise current   to   voltage ( i / v ) converter housed within the probe head 201 and a copper shield held at the reference potential surrounds the entire head . the vibrator unit 209 is designed to move the probe head along a single axis that is perpendicular to the surface of the skin or epithelia under study . this can be achieved with many types of vibrators based on piezoelectric , magnetostrictive or electromagnetic transducers . one embodiment of the present invention is composed of an cylinder that is 1 . 9 ″ in diameter and 4 . 7 ″ long and contains an electromagnetic transducer or voice coil actuator , commercially available from bei kimco . this suspension system using dual springs 203 stabilizes the axis of vibration and offers a frequency range of 10   400 hz . as can be seen in fig3 , the probe head 201 is electrically connected to a computer 301 and a motorized micropositioner 303 . the computer 301 has an analogue   to   digital converter that is used to acquire signals from the probe and determines the peak   to   peak voltage variation on each current   to   voltage converter connected to each metal sensor as it vibrates near the epithelium . in one embodiment of the present invention , the a / d conversion is performed by a data translations a / d converter . software written in visual basic determines the peak   to   peak value of the signal from the probe for different values of v b and averages a specified number of these readings to reduce the contribution of random noise to the signal . fig4 depicts one embodiment of a graphical interface used on the computer 301 . on the upper left corner , the probe real   time output is displayed and several acquisition parameters such as the desired acquisition rate and number of loops to average is entered there . the desired frequency of vibration is entered in the upper center box and the scanning parameters are entered on the upper right box . the time course of both the averaged voltage and slope are displayed on the lower left panel . a photomicrograph of the wound being studied is displayed on the lower right . as can been seen in fig3 , the motorized micropositioner 303 controls the x   y   z position of the probe head relative to the subject . the motorized positioner 303 is electrically connected to and controlled by the computer 301 . the motorized positioner is capable of moving with a 1 μm step size in each direction . fig5 a depicts the motorized micromanipulator that controls the x   y   z position of the bfi probe . although depicted as a probe that is moved via a micropositioner , a probe that is sized to be portable and hand   held is within the scope of the present invention . fig5 b depicts such a hand   held probe . as can be seen in fig6 , the method of measuring the electric field near a wound on a mammal is detailed . in step 601 , the surface area of the mammal to be measured is prepared . complete hair removal is important because the static charge on hair influences surface potential readings . that removal can be accomplished by physically shaving the skin and / or using chemical treatments such as nair . physically removing the hair with a razor can still leave remnants of hair that can carry charge . the use of chemicals not only dissolves hair but stops further growth for several days . any possible detrimental effects of chemical treatment on the electrical properties of the skin appear to be negligible . in step 603 , a polyvinyl film can be placed over the wound and must be in very close contact with the skin . if the skin is very dry , a drop of water or mineral oil can be applied to the skin to facilitate this close contact between the skin and the polyvinyl film . this step is taken to eliminate the component of the signal due to work function differences in surface features . the work function refers to the affinity of a given surface for electrons . every material will have a specific electron affinity . indeed the first application of the original kelvin probe was to detect this work function difference between two different metals . thus , the probe signal is a combination of both the actual surface voltage and the difference in work function between the copper probe tip and the skin surface . complications can arise when scanning wounds because the interstitial fluid in the wound has a very different work function than that of the surrounding skin and this is detected by the probe . however , if a thin layer of polyvinyl film is placed over the wound , only the work function of the polyvinyl is seen by the probe while the skin surface voltage is detected right through this layer since the polyvinyl is a non   conductor with a dielectric constant of 3 . 5 . this is ideal as it allows the measurement of the electric field near the wound and not the work function differences between skin and fluid . it is important to note that this step is not necessary to obtaining an accurate electric field measurement , but it ensures that the electric field measurement is not affected by the work function differences between the skin and any interstitial fluids in the wound . the next step 605 is to activate the probe and begin the measurements . the skin is either grounded during this step or a small voltage of ± 5   10 v is applied to it , and the metal probe is vibrated above and normal to the skin . the vibration creates an oscillating current that is converted into an oscillating voltage by the a / d converter in the probe head . the vibration amplitude used is approximately 90 μm or greater . fig7 is a chart that shows the signal detection efficiency of the probe for four different amplitudes . they indicate that a vibration amplitude of 90 μm or greater is required to detect all of the signal with a distance of 150   200 μm between the surface under investigation and the nearest approach of the 0 . 2 mm 2 probe . smaller amplitudes required that the probe be positioned less than 100 μm from the surface for maximum signal detection . fig7 also illustrates the dependence of signal detection efficiency on the distance of closest approach to the surface being studied . the signal falls off fairly sharply when the gap is larger than 150 μm for a 0 . 2 mm 2 probe . active feedback is incorporated on the height control described below , which is adequate to insure that these two surfaces never touch while the mouse wounds are scanned . under these conditions , the spatial resolution of the probe is equal to the size of the metal plate used and all of the data collected in fig1   16 used a head with plates that were 320 × 700 μm . another probe size that can be used is a circular plate 500 μm in diameter . since the capacitance is proportional to the surface area of the probe divided by the gap between probe and skin , larger probes would allow a larger gap to be used . of course , this also reduces spatial resolution so the optimal probe size is dependent on the size of the region of interest . for the 1 mm long wounds described here , the spatial resolution of 320 μm was adequate to generate reproducible electrical field maps . the probe uses active feedback to control the distance between the probe and the skin and is based on the fundamental theory of the probe . the fundamental principal of this technique is that the skin potential can be measured by vibrating a small , flat piece of metal close to it in air . this forms a parallel   plate capacitor with one plate being the skin surface . if the surface potential of the metal is different from the surface potential of the skin below it , there will be a flow of charge between the two surfaces when they are connected . by applying a series of known voltages ( v b ) to the probe , the voltage at which there is no current flow between the two surfaces can be quickly determined and that value is equal to the surface potential of the skin just below the probe . this can be rapidly achieved by measuring the v ptp when v b =± 10 v and then drawing a straight line between these two v ptp values . the slope of this line is inversely proportional to the distance between the probe and the skin . this can be seen most clearly from the equation for the output voltage , v o =( v c + v b ) grc ω ( d / d o ) sin ( ω t + φ ) where d is the oscillation amplitude , d o is the average distance between the sample and probe tip , g is the amplifier gain , v c is the voltage difference between the probe and the sample , v b is the voltage applied to the probe , ω is the angular frequency of vibration . the voltage between the peaks of this sine wave , v pyp = mv b + c where m = 2grcω ( d / d o ). thus , if v ptp is plotted versus v b , it results in a straight line whose slope is inversely proportional to the distance between probe and sample . fig8 depicts a chart showing this relationship . curve “ b ” shows the effect of a change in specimen surface potential and “ c ” shows the slope dependence on the mean spacing . the x axis intercept provides the unknown surface potential where v b =− v c . this analysis is done by software in real time so that the distance information can be fed back to the z stepper motor to provide a very sensitive method for maintaining a constant spacing between probe and sample . this distance is displayed continuously on the computer monitor as well as on the data output for each scan . this feedback is applied continuously during scanning so that the distance between probe and skin is kept constant . as can be seen in fig6 , step 607 shows that the measurement step 605 is repeated often to average the signal to eliminate noise . in order to reduce the noise to about 1 mv , an average of about 1000 measurements is made . in addition , filter routines are incorporated to reject large noise spikes . this method results in clear measurements of the electric fields surrounding wounds in mammals . comprehensive testing was performed on mice . fig9 depicts a hairless mouse under isoflurane inhalation anesthesia being scanned by the probe . electrical contact is made with the skin of the mouse by using a conductive plastic q   trace tab on its foot . fig1 a and 10 b depict a summary of results observed on mouse wounds with the indicated mean electric field values plus or minus sem in mv / mm and the number of mice studied given in parentheses . fig1 a shows the surface potential measurements where there is a significant break in the epidermis . as indicated by the scale , the average field measured over the wound is approximately 200 mv / mm and the field reverses and falls to 115 mv / mm at the edge of the wound . fig1 b depicts the measured electric field when the wound does not exhibit a large break in the epidermis and this value is typically 142 mv / mm . in addition , it can be seen that the surface potential for the smaller wound is positive around the wound . in contrast , the larger wound shows a positive surface potential around the edges of the wound and a large negative surface potential for the area within the wound . this occurs because the larger gap in the epidermis exposes the relatively negative region beneath the epidermis where the current is flowing in the opposite direction toward the wound . fig1 and 12 depicts the results of a probe scan before and after wounding . fig1 a shows a 3   dimensional plot of the skin surface potential prior to a wound being inflicted . fig1 b is a two   dimensional cross section view of a 200 μm wide strip from a along the y axis at x = 0 . fig1 depicts the surface potential distribution after the wound has been inflicted . fig1 a and fig1 f are micrographs of the two wounds inflicted on different mice with the respective bfi scans of these wounds shown to the right of each micrograph ( fig1 b   c and 12 g   h ). fig1 d   e shows the surface potential distribution of the same region scanned in fig1 b   c just after the topical application of the na + channel blocker , amiloride . the 50 % reduction in the electric field following amiloride application supports the hypothesis that this electric field is generated by the transepithelial potential that is in part dependent on na + influx into the epidermis . as can be seen in fig1 , a scan of unwounded skin generally reveals a fairly uniform surface potential with a maximum variation of about 60 mv prior to wounding . however , immediately following wounding , an electric field is detected in the skin around the wound ( fig1 b , c ). the region over the wound is usually negative with respect to the surrounding skin by 200 mv / mm . the magnitude of this field is dependent on na + influx because it is reduced by an average of 60 ± 11 % ( sem , n = 6 ) when a 1 mm solution of amiloride in saline is added topically to the wound ( fig1 d , e ). in addition to the clearly negative region directly over the wound , a surface potential gradient of 115 ± 64 mv / mm is usually found from the edge of the wound outward . this is generated by the current flowing between the stratum comeum and the stratum granulosum . the magnitude of these skin wound electric fields diminishes over the course of time . fig1 depicts scans from the probe for a wound over the course of three days . as can be seen by the decrease in the electric field measured at three days after wounding when the wound appears to be nearly completely healed , there is a positive correlation between the two . fig1 shows the results from a bfi scan performed on a narrow cut in the hand of a human . the electric field magnitude and time course of healing was similar to that observed on the mouse wounds . this technique could be useful for providing a quantifiable measure of the rate of wound healing as well as determining if there is a correlation between the magnitude of the electric field near human skin wounds and the rate of wound healing . while all of the data collected on mice has been generated by scanning a single probe sensor over the skin in a two   dimensional grid pattern with the aid of a micromanipulator , spatial information can be also obtained without scanning by using an array of sensors . fig1 shows one such array in which 8 sensors are arranged in a linear fashion and makes possible the simultaneous acquisition of the surface potential data from 8 points at once . this shortens the data acquisition time 8   fold while providing electric field information along one axis . eight a / d converters are located within the head and these are connected to 8 inputs of a data translations a / d card capable of digitizing all 8 signals simultaneously at 100 khz . the bfi device can be used to measure the skin surface potential around melanomas in mouse skin . these melanomas can be generated by injecting approximately 1 million b16 murine melanoma cells just beneath the skin in a mouse . fig1 illustrates the appearance of a typical melanoma at 10 days after injection . the left micrograph shows a view from outside of skin while the right micrograph shows a view from underneath the skin on the same scale showing that the melanoma is actually larger than it appears from the apical side . fig1 a   d illustrates the surface potential distribution of one such melanoma in a c57bl / 6 mouse . the circular red line in fig1 a and the broad line on the x   axis in fig1 b indicate the tumor position relative to the scan . this can be compared to the two lower panels that represent a control scan of a nearby region of skin on the same mouse . these data show that the bfi device may be useful for the detection and diagnosis of skin cancers such as melanoma , basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma . the present invention is not to be considered limited in scope by the preferred embodiments described in the specification . additional advantages and modifications , which readily occur to those skilled in the art from consideration and specification and practice of this invention are intended to be within the scope and spirit of the following claims :
