a mailer assembly which can be supplied to a user in intermediate form and which , when assembled and sealed , has an enhanced ability to shield confidential information from unauthorized view is provided . the mailer assembly may also include an integral return envelope and also may be designed so that variable information can be printed on the sheets making up the mailer prior to assembly using nonimpact printers such as laser printers which use heat and pressure to fuse toner to paper . the mailer assembly includes first and second sheets in superimposed relation , with each of the first and second sheets having a pair of marginal side edges and a pair of end edges . the mailer further includes removable marginal side and end strips for opening the mailer . the first and second sheets are secured together parallel to their respective marginal side and end edges to form a subassembly . the subassembly is v   folded along a suitable axis thereof and secured together along its marginal and end strips to form the mailer assembly .
referring to fig1   2 , a preferred construction of one embodiment of the mailer assembly of the present invention is illustrated . as shown , mailer assembly 10 includes first cover sheet 12 and second base sheet 14 which are of substantially the same dimensions and which are adapted to be placed in a superimposed relation one atop the other . a preferred means of supplying the cover and base sheets for the mailer is as continuous cover and base webs 16 and 18 , respectively . cover web 16 and base web 18 are only partially shown in phantom in fig2 as their detail is not necessary to a complete understanding of the present invention . the webs are associated and aligned as is conventional in this art through the use of removable pin   hole feed strips 17 , 19 , respectively . a series of spaced transverse perforation lines across each of the webs is used to divide the webs into individual cover and base sheets . cover sheet 12 includes a pair of marginal side edges 20a , 22a and a pair of end edges 24a , 26a . base sheet 14 also includes a corresponding pair of marginal side edges 20b , 22b and a pair of end edges 24b , 26b . patterns of heat sealable adhesive 38 are applied to the back side ( the side facing up in fig2 ) of cover sheet 12 generally parallel to each of the marginal side and end edges 20   26 . the adhesive patterns may comprise continuous or noncontinuous stripes or a series of spots . the adhesive patterns are positioned outwardly ( i . e ., toward the marginal and end edges ) of longitudinal and transverse perforation lines 40   46 as shown . other patterns of heat sealable adhesive 38 are applied on the lower half of the back side of base sheet 14 generally parallel to marginal side edges 20b , 22b and bottom end edge 26b . again , the adhesive patterns are positioned outwardly of longitudinal and transverse perforation lines 40 , 42 , and 46 as shown . mailer assembly 10 may also be provided with a cut   out window area 48 on cover sheet 12 . the window 48 is positioned on cover sheet 12 in any convenient location and is designed to mate with addressee information which has been printed on an interior surface of base sheet 14 so that information can be viewed for mailing purposes . as is conventional in the art , a transparent patch 50 of glassine or transparent polymer may be secured to cover window 48 . typically , the mailer may be provided to a customer in a kit or intermediate uncollated form as rolls or stacks of continuous base and cover webs 16 , 18 . all nonvariable information may be preprinted onto the webs using conventional printing equipment , the window areas cut   out , and transparent window patches applied prior to shipment to a customer . additionally , the patterns of heat sealable adhesive 38 are also preferably applied to the webs prior to customer shipment . the customer may then use pin   hole feed marginal strips 17 , 19 to guide the base and / or cover webs through his own printing equipment to add variable information to the front and / or back sides of those webs . respective cover and base sheets on each web are then associated one with the other in a superimposed relationship with the back side of the cover sheets facing the front side of the base sheets as shown in fig2 and their respective marginal side and end edges being in alignment . again , pin   hole feed marginal strips 17 , 19 may be used to obtain proper alignment . individual pairs of associated sheets 12 , 14 are then torn from their respective webs in a conventional bursting operation to form subassembly 30 . pin   hole feed marginal strips 17 , 19 may also be removed at this time either in a cutting or bursting operation . as the associated sheets travel through the bursting equipment , their respective marginal side strips parallel to edges 20 , 22 may be temporarily secured , if needed . this securing of edges is preferably only temporary such as by passing subassembly 30 between a pair of knurled rollers or a crimping mechanism to form a temporary joinder at marginal side strips parallel to edges 20 , 22 . the marginal strips are preferably permanently secured when the mailer is finished during a single pass through an integrated finishing line such as a standard register model 2000 burster ( available from the standard register company , dayton , ohio ), a profold ( trademark ) folder , and a standard register model 410 heat sealer . as best shown in fig2 subassembly 30 is v   folded in the direction shown by the arrows and then heat sealed to form the finished mailer . cover sheet 12 and base sheet 14 are permanently secured to one another along marginal side strips parallel to edges 20a   b , 22a   b and end edges 24a   b , 26a   b by the adhesive on the back of cover sheet 12 , and subassembly 30 is sealed to itself along marginal side strips parallel to edges 20a   b , 22a   b and end edge 26a   b by the adhesive on the back of the lower half of base sheet 14 to form the finished mailer assembly 10 . while mailer assembly 10 may take many configurations , it is preferred that the base and cover sheets are of a size which , when folded in half , form a mailer which is of first class postage size . however , the invention is not limited to the specific configurations shown in the drawings and may be utilized for a number of different sized and shaped configurations . mailer assembly 10 is provided with removable marginal side strips 32 and 34 as well as a removable end strip 36 . the removable strips are formed by providing the cover and base sheets with pairs of transverse lines of perforations 40 , 42 and longitudinal lines of perforations 44 , 46 . the recipient of mailer assembly 10 may gain access to its contents by removing the strips 32   36 by folding and tearing them along the provided perforation lines . as previously described , both nonvariable and variable information may be printed on any of the surfaces of the base , and cover sheets 12 and 14 . generally , cover sheet 12 will be preprinted with nonvariable information as it forms the exterior of the mailer . base sheet 14 , as shown in fig2 may have its back side ( upward facing side in fig2 ) printed with both variable and nonvariable information , the variable information being supplied by the customer using his own printer . because of the manner in which mailer assembly 10 is folded and sealed , the back side of base sheet 14 is quite secure from any unauthorized viewing against a light source . its contents are completely sealed from outside view by the four   edge sealing of cover sheet 12 to base sheet 14 and the three edge sealing when the mailer assembly is folded and sealed . accordingly , it is preferred that if the mailer is to contain confidential information , that the information be printed onto the back side of base sheet 14 . the side of base sheet 14 facing cover sheet 12 may include any other desirable information including addressee information which aligns with window 48 when the mailer is folded and sealed . in another embodiment of the invention illustrated in fig3 and 4 , where like elements are represented by like reference numerals , mailer assembly 10 includes an integral return envelope 60 . in this embodiment , cover sheet 12 is divided roughly into two portions identified as areas 62 and 64 . first portion 62 of cover sheet 12 is bounded by marginal side edges 20a and 22a , end edge 24a , and fold line 72 . second portion 64 is bounded by marginal side edges 20a and 22a , end edge 26a , and fold line 72 . likewise , base sheet 14 is divided roughly into two portions identified as areas 66 and 68 . first portion 66 of base sheet 14 is bounded by marginal side edges 20b and 22b , end edge 24b , and transverse perforation line 78 which is positioned along the fold line formed when the two sheets are v   folded together . second portion 68 is bounded by marginal side edges 20b and 22b , end edge 26b , and transverse perforation line 78 . the respective first portions 62 of cover sheet 12 and 66 of base sheet 14 are secured together by adhesive 38a along their respective marginal side strips parallel to edges 20a   b and 22a   b , and end edge 24a   b , outwardly of their respective marginal perforation lines 40 , 44 , and 46 . however , as best shown in fig3 the respective second portions 64 of cover sheet 12 and 68 of base sheet 14 are secured together by adhesive 38b parallel to their respective marginal side edges 20a   b and 22a   b , and end edge 24a   b , inwardly of their respective marginal perforation lines 42 , 44 , and 46 . this placement of adhesive patterns 38a   b results in the formation of an integral return envelope 60 by the secured together second portions 64 and 68 . placement of the adhesive pattern inwardly of the marginal perforation lines prevents removal of this securing means when the marginal strips are removed . placement of perforation line 70 above the fold line 72 produces both a flap 76 for envelope 60 as well as a first removable stub 74 which can be detached by a recipient of mailer assembly 10 . flap 76 preferably includes an adhesive 84 for sealing the return envelope . while different types of adhesive may be used , adhesive 84 is preferably a remoistenable adhesive . likewise on second portion 66 of base sheet 14 , the transverse line of perforations 78 produces a second removable stub 82 which can also be detached by the recipient of the mailer . either or both of stubs 74 and 82 can be printed to form receipts , invoices , or the like . one or both of the stubs may be designed to be returned by the recipient in the return envelope 60 . as shown in fig3 and 4 , portion 68 of base sheet 14 preferably also includes a preprinted return address 86 on what will become an exterior face of the return envelope 60 . further , while the configuration of return envelope 60 shown in fig3 and 4 includes the flap along the top of return envelope 60 , it will be appreciated by those skilled in this art that the adhesive patterns 38 may be reconfigured to produce a return envelope which is side opening with a flap on either end of the return envelope . referring now to fig5 and 6 , another embodiment of the invention is shown . again , like elements are represented by like reference numerals . in this embodiment , base sheet 14 has no adhesive on it . this permits base sheet 14 ( while still a part of base web 18 ) to be passed through a laser printer by a customer to add variable information to one or both sides of the sheet . as shown in fig5 and 6 , after printing is performed , base sheet 14 and cover sheet 12 are superimposed one atop the other and aligned along their respective marginal side edges 20a   b and 22 a   b , and end edges 24a   b and 26a   b . cover sheet 12 includes patterns of heat sealable adhesive 38 on the back side thereof parallel to each of the marginal side and end edges 20a , 22a , 24a , and 26a . again , the adhesive patterns are positioned outwardly of longitudinal and transverse perforation lines 40   46 as shown . to provide a means to seal the mailer once the cover and base sheets have been associated and folded , a series of openings 92 are punched or cut into the marginal side and end strips 32   36 of base sheet 14 . while the openings are illustrated as being circular in the drawing figures , it will be appreciated by those skilled in this art that the openings may assume other configurations such as square or rectangular openings . the purpose of openings 92 is to provide a series of places around the periphery of the mailer where , when the mailer is folded , adhesive 38 contacts either itself , as shown in fig6 or a portion of the surface of the marginal and end strips 32   36 . when the subassembly is folded and then passed through heated rolls to activate adhesive 38 , a series of adhesive to adhesive , or adhesive to paper , seals are formed all along the periphery of the mailer . while certain representative embodiments and details have been shown for purposes of illustrating the invention , it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes in the methods and apparatus disclosed herein may be made without departing from the scope of the invention , which is defined in the appended claims .
