a robotic endoscope for performing endoscopic procedures in a tubular organ comprising : a plurality of segments , connected together by a plurality of flexible articulated joints , having a distal end ; a plurality of flexible linear actuators attached , skewed sideways with respect to the longitudinal axis of said robot , circumferentially round each segment ; a central cavity running longitudinally through said robotic endoscope which houses a plurality of optical fibres , a water / air hose , an instrumentation channel and a plurality of electrical wires associated with an imaging means being mounted at the distal end of the robotic endoscope ; and a network of tributary channels for the distribution of pressure to said linear actuators . the present invention is also applicable to an autonomous pipe robot .
referring to fig1 there is shown a tubular robot ( 1 ) capable of advancing in an elongated passage with rigid or elastic , tubular wall . the robot ( 1 ) comprises a plurality of segments ( 2 ), having a distal end , connected together by a plurality of flexible articulated joints ( 3 ). the articulated joints ( 3 ) provide the robot ( 1 ) to conform to the different bends and curvature found in the human organs . a plurality of hollow rubber bellows ( 11 ) are used to make the joints ( 3 ) each of which has three degrees of rotational freedom and certain degree of translational freedoms . referring to fig2 the distal end of the segment ( 2 ) houses a plurality of optical fibres ( not shown ) for a light source ( 4 ), a water / air opening ( 5 ), an instrumentation channel ( 6 ) and an imaging device ( 7 ), such as an ultra   compact charge couple camera . the wires and tunings ( not shown ) associated with these devices ( 4 , 6 , & amp ; 7 ) run into the central cavity ( 8 ) of the robot ( 1 ). these wires and tunings exit the robot ( 1 ) bundled together as a tail ( not shown ) which connects to the last segment ( 10 ). referring to fig3 attached circumferentially round each segment ( 2 ) is a plurality of flexible linear actuators ( 11 ). in accordance with the present invention , the plurality of the retractable rubber bellows ( 11 ) are used as the linear actuators . these actuators ( 11 ) are pressure driven by pneumatics or hydraulics . as the actuators ( 11 ) are not made from metals , the actuators ( 11 ) will not damage the delicate walls of the human organs . these rubber bellows ( 11 ) are attached , by proximal ends , to the cavities ( 12 ) in the segments ( 2 ). the bellows ( 11 ) are clamped or glued to the segments ( 2 ). they are positioned skewed sideways with respect to the longitudinal axis of the body ( of the robot ) with their distal ends pointing radially away from the main body ( of the robot ). all the bellows ( 11 ) in one segment ( 2 ) are connected to the same pressure line which runs through the central cavity ( 8 ) of the main body of the robot ( 1 ) and exits via the tail ( 9 ). pressure is distributed evenly to the bellows ( 11 ) via a plurality of the tributary pressure channels ( 13 ) in the segment ( 2 ). when high pressure , from an external source , is introduced through the channels ( 13 ), the connected bellows ( 11 ) will extend longitudinally . conversely , when low pressure ( below atmospheric pressure ) is introduced , the bellows ( 11 ) will retract into the cavities ( 12 ) in the segment ( 2 ). locomotive force is produced as the bellow ( 11 ) extends to push against the internal walls of the organ . being flexible radially , the bellow ( 11 ) may bend towards the robot &# 39 ; s 1 main body when it comes into contact with the organic walls . further extension of the bellow ( 11 ) will continue to bring about forward locomotive forces . this collapsible mechanism is a safe   guard against puncturing and perforation of the delicate walls . to prevent slippage at the point of contact , the bellow ( 11 ) may be padded as shown by ( 14 ) to increase the surface area of contact . fig6 shows a flowchart of a control means ( 60 ) which controls the sequence by which the bellows ( 11 ) are extended or retracted . each set of bellows ( 11 ) within one segment ( 2 ) or even each individual bellow ( 11 ) may be activated independently . in accordance with the present invention , the user operates the robot ( 1 ) via a graphical user interface developed using a computer program run on a desktop pc ( 62 ). this program is responsible for most of the control functions of the robot ( 1 ). with the aid of a data acquisition system ( 63 ), it controls the type of gait sequence to be used , its speed and the robot &# 39 ; s ability to insufflate or deflate the colon . this is done by opening or closing independent solenoid valves ( 61 ) which allow air pressure or vacuum to pass into the respective actuators in the robot ( 1 ). the steerable distal head of the robot ( 1 ) is actuated by 2 dc motors ( 80 ). the user controls a 2   axis joystick ( 64 ) to indicate the position he wants the head to bend to . the changes in the voltages of the corresponding potentiometers are sensed by the data acquisition system ( 63 ). the computer program then processes this data into encoder ( 65 ) readings corresponding to the desired position . an analogue voltage signal is passed via the data acquisition system ( 63 ) to operate the motors ( 80 ). the computer program will ensure that the polarity of the input voltage will cause the motor ( 80 ) to turn in the desired direction . the program also constantly reads the actual encoder ( 65 ) reading via a 3   axis quadrature encoder ( 65 ) and counter card ( 66 ). when the encoder ( 65 ) reading comes into a range close to the desired reading set by the joystick ( 64 ), the program will cause the motor ( 80 ) to decelerate and finally stop . if the motor ( 80 ) overshoots this range , the program will cause the motor ( 80 ) to adjust itself back into the range . the monitory the ( 90 ), light source ( 67 ) and the image processor ( 68 ) are equipment required to retrieve the robot &# 39 ; s endoscopic view . fig5 illustrates a gait sequence which is used to locomote the present robot ( 1 ) and fig7 shows a gait ( 50 ) in which the sets of bellow actuators ( 11 ) are activated antagonistically in accordance with the present invention . in the present embodiment , the robot ( 1 ) can be made to locomote using a plurality of various types of gaits ( 50 ). as shown in fig5 there is shown how alternate sets of bellows ( 11 ) are sequenced to extend and retract simultaneously to bring about forward locomotion . depending on the number of segments ( 2 ) in the robot ( 1 ), the plurality of gaits ( 50 ) may be designed for optimum performance relating to speed , ability to advance against gravity or ability to advance through difficult bends . to extract the robot ( 1 ) from the tubular organ , all bellows ( 11 ) are retracted . the user then pulls out the robot 1 holding onto the proximal tail ( 9 ) end . in accordance with the present invention , the movement of the robot ( 1 ) depends solely on the pushing force of the bellows actuators ( 11 ). the pressurized air is introduced into the robot ( 1 ), the bellow actuators ( 11 ) will start to inflate , growing longitudinally until it touches the colon walls at 45 degrees . if the friction is arranged to be large enough so that the point of contact does not slide , there will be a resultant force that pushes the robot ( 1 ) forward . when a vacuum is introduced instead , the bellow ( 11 ) would collapse such that their tips touch their bases . depending on the control means ( 60 ), different bellow actuators ( 11 ) can be inflated or deflated at different times . this results in many different types of locomotive gaits ( 50 ) which propels the robot ( 1 ) forward . in accordance with the present invention , the distal end of the robot ( 1 ) is steerable like a conventional endoscope . this is to facilitate positioning of surgical tools and more precise inspection activities . fig8 illustrates the gear box with motors ( 80 ) which is designed to turn concentric shafts of the robot ( 1 ). a plurality of lead wires connected to motors ( 80 ) located outside the robot ( 1 ) may be used to activate a steering mechanism ( 15 ) embedded in the front two segments ( 2 ). in accordance with the present invention , four lead wires ( not shown ) exit from the bending tube ( not shown ) which is situated at the distal end of the robot ( 1 ). these wires are placed 90 degrees apart . to enable the robot &# 39 ; s head to flip , one or two wires must be pulled while the wires opposite be released . the greater the displacement of the wires , the greater the bending angle . two wires at 180 degrees apart will form an antagonistic pair and is responsible for bending movements in one axis . the other ends of the four lead wires are connected to two concentric shafts . each pair of wires ( 180 degrees apart ) is connected to each shaft . by turning these shafts , pulling forces are generated on the wires which will bring about bending movements of the robot head . the control system , will determine which shaft should be turned and by how much to steer the head in a particular direction with a particular radius of curvature . as shown in fig8 there is shown a gearbox with motors specially designed to turn the concentric shafts . the gearbox ( 82 ) generally consists of two worm gear sets ( 83 ) and two dc motors ( 80 ). the worm gear set ( 83 ) acts as a self locking mechanism to hold the bending head in a required position thus preventing back drive . in another preferred embodiment of the present invention , an autonomous robot ( 1 ) capable of advancing in pipes of small diameters is also disclosed . the robot ( 1 ) comprises a plurality of rigid cylindrical segments ( 2 ) connected together by a plurality of flexible articulated joints ( 3 ). the articulated joints ( 3 ) that connect the segments ( 2 ) allow the robot ( 1 ) to conform to the different bends and curvature found in pipes . the distal end of the segment ( 2 ) houses a charge coupled camera ( 7 ) and a light source ( 4 ) responsible for the robot &# 39 ; s ( 1 ) vision . referring to fig4 attached circumferentially round each segment ( 2 ) is a plurality of electrically or pneumatically or hydraulically driven linear actuators ( 16 ). these linear actuators ( 16 ) are attached , by proximal ends , to cavities in the segments and are positioned skewed sideways with respect to the longitudinal axis of the body of the robot ( 1 ) with their distal ends pointing radially away from the robot ( 1 ). locomotive force is produced as the linear actuator ( 16 ) extends to push against the internal walls of the pipe . the linear actuator ( 16 ) can also be retracted into the segments ( 2 ) such that it does not hinder locomotion when the robot ( 1 ) advances . the linear actuator ( 16 ) may be pivoted as shown in ( 17 ) at its proximal end so as to enable it to swivel to face the opposite direction ( as shown in ) ( 18 ) to bring about locomotion in the reversed direction . the control means ( 60 ) controls the sequence by which the linear actuators ( 16 ) are activated . each set of linear actuators ( 16 ) or even each individual linear actuator ( 16 ) can be activated independently . the robot ( 1 ) in accordance with the present invention can be made to locomote using a plurality of various types of gaits ( 50 ). as mentioned earlier , fig5 illustrates how alternate sets of linear actuators ( 16 ) are sequenced to extend and retract simultaneously to bring about forward locomotion . the plurality of gaits ( 50 ) may be designed for optimum performance relating to speed , ability to advance against gravity or ability to advance through difficult bends . the central cavity ( 8 ) in the robot ( 1 ) is used to house a power source ( 69 ), the control means ( 60 ), transmitter and other peripherals required of an autonomous system . according to the present invention , the distal end of the robot ( 1 ) is steerable to facilitate inspection and direction of advancement . miniature motors may be used to activate a steering mechanism ( 15 ) embedded in the front two segments ( 2 ), and the steerable mechanism is driven by shape memory alloy wires . the locomotion aspects of the present invention may be applied in any elongated passage having an elastic or rigid , tubular wall . although only two embodiments have been shown and described , it would be obvious to those skilled in the art that many modifications to the present robot ( 1 ) is possible without departing from the spirit and scope of our invention .
