the invention discloses a surgical technique and apparatus for minimally invasive replacement of a fractured femoral head in hip arthroscopy . the fractured femoral head is first removed from the patient , and an incision made on the patient on a lateral aspect of the operative thigh . a hole is then drilled into the cortex of the operative femur of the patient through the incision . the femoral neck and femoral canal of the operative femur are reamed by inserting a reamer through the drilled hole . a hip prosthesis is then inserted into the wound and injected with molding . the hip prosthesis includes a femoral component having a distal end and a proximal end , the distal end inserted and anchored in the reamed femoral canal , and a femoral head component with smooth surface . the femoral head component contains a deflated balloon that , when inflated with molding , is similar to a neo   femoral head .
in the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments , reference is made to the accompanying drawings , which form a part thereof , and within which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments by which the invention may be practiced . it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention . certain embodiments of the current invention can be used in lieu of hip hemiarthroplasty and / or hip pinning in a sedentary or household   ambulating patient who has a hip fracture . the advantages of the device are immediate fixation of the fracture , immediate weight bearing after surgery , and reduced invasiveness compared to a hip hemiarthroplasty . hip hemiarthroplasty is performed more commonly for hip fractures than hip pinning because pinning requires a stable fracture pattern . a patient is positioned supine on an operating table . the operative leg can be internally rotated by about 15 째 to compensate for normal hip anteversion , such that the surgeon can orient instruments parallel to the operating room floor , ceiling , operating table , or other landmark to achieve correct orientation to the femoral neck . using fluoroscopy , the hip landmarks can be established on the patient &# 39 ; s skin . as depicted in fig1 and 2 , common hip arthroscopic portals include anterior portal 2 a , anterolateral portal 2 b , and lateral portal 2 c . once the desired portal 2 a , 2 b , 2 c has been established within the patient , the hip capsule can be irrigated to remove hematoma from the capsule . fractured femoral head 4 is then removed . femoral head 4 can be removed using common arthroscopic instruments , for example camera , grasper , and bone burr , to remove the femoral head fragments . additional portals may be required to effectively immobilize femoral head 4 so that the burr may be used effectively . once femoral head 4 is removed and the fractured surface of the femoral neck has been irrigated and smoothed , incision 10 on the lateral aspect of the thigh is made as shown in fig3 . incision 10 is positioned so that it is coincident to a line drawn through the path of the femoral neck . dissection of the soft tissues is taken down to the lateral aspect of the greater trochanter . as shown in fig4 , lateral trochanteric osteomy hole 12 is created in the cortex of the lateral femur by conventional instruments , for example a drill bit through incision 10 . the size of hole 12 varies with the size of the patient ; however , hole 12 would typically range from about 15 mm to about 20 mm in diameter . as shown in fig5 , canal   finding reamer ( not shown ) of similar diameter to hole 12 is then used to extend hole 12 in the cortex through the femoral neck to create reamed femoral neck 14 . canal   finding reamers are commercially available from many orthopedic companies as shown in fig6 , reaming of the femoral canal is undertaken using highly flexible   shaft reamers 16 and guide tube 18 with 90 째 elbow 20 . guide tube 18 is used to direct flexible   shaft reamers 16 down femoral canal 22 . flexible   shaft reamers are commercially available from many orthopedic companies . reamers 16 may be marked to allow reaming to the proper depth . reaming depth and trajectory can be checked with fluoroscopy , as depicted in fig7 . the use of reamer 16 in this manner may be enhanced in patients with low bone density ( e . g ., osteopenia or osteoporosis ) with the use of flexible tube 34 that would traverse guide tube 18 with 90 째 elbow 20 . flexible tube 34 can have an outer diameter slightly smaller than the inner diameter of guide tube 18 . flexible tube 34 can have an inner diameter slightly larger than the outer diameter of reamer 16 . flexible tube 34 would be advanced behind reamer 16 to prevent deviation of the course of reamer 16 outside of the bone . flexible tube 34 could be made of any biocompatible , flexible synthetic materials , individually or in combination . when reamer 16 has completed reaming femoral canal 22 , as depicted in fig7 , the entire wound can be irrigated with a commercially available pulse   lavage device ( e . g ., stryker orthopaedics ). next , a hip prosthesis , denoted generally by the reference numeral 30 , is introduced into the wound . hip prosthesis 30 includes femoral component 26 and femoral head component 28 . femoral head component 28 includes deflated balloon 28 a , which , when inflated with a molding , for example bone cement ( polymethylmethacrylate ), would take the form of hip hemiarthroplasty component 28 b , as shown in fig8 . hip prosthesis 30 could take the form of several embodiments , all of which would be made with a liner that includes a flexible material that resists stretching . many materials have this property ; examples include fiberglass and carbon fiber . femoral head component 28 is surfaced with a smooth material to allow low   friction articulation with acetabulum 8 . hip prosthesis 30 can be manufactured with radioopaque markers to indicate the most proximal and distal aspects of hip prosthesis 30 so that position of femoral component 26 and deflated femoral head component 28 a may be checked prior to inflation with molding . other radioopaque markers could be used as necessary to facilitate positioning of hip prosthesis 30 . a marker at the base of femoral neck 14 could be one such marker . deflated femoral head component 28 a may be inflated with air or water prior to injection of molding in order to visualize femoral head component 28 in its inflated state to ascertain positioning . an additional embodiment of hip prosthesis 30 includes inflating deflated femoral head component 28 a with water or air prior to cementation to incorporate small fenestrations ( typically 2   3 mm diameter ) along femoral component 26 . the small fenestrations would allow molding to escape the device and interdigitate with the patient &# 39 ; s bone , which is the normal mode by which molding , such as bone cement , achieves fixation . insertion of the distal portion of femoral component 26 into femoral canal 22 of the patient can be performed in several ways . an embodiment , as depicted in fig9 , involves femoral component 26 and femoral head component 28 a initially rolled lengthwise into a slimmer form to facilitate insertion into the patient . external sleeve 32 on the outside of femoral component 26 allows for placement of flexible tube 34 to be inserted down femoral canal 22 adjacent to femoral component 26 , as shown in fig1   12 . this positioning is aided by use of guide tube 18 previously used for trajectory guidance of flexible reamers 16 with 90 째 elbow 20 , as shown in fig1 . external sleeve 32 can be collapsible so that when molding is introduced into femoral canal 22 , external sleeve 32 will not prevent complete inflation of femoral component 26 with molding . femoral head portion 28 of hip prosthesis 30 includes insertion sleeve 33 over the top portion of deflated femoral head component 28 a when in its rolled   up form , as shown in fig1 and 13 . insertion sleeve 33 has string 36 attached to the end of sleeve 33 at a proximal aspect of femoral head component 28 . sleeve 33 can be manufactured so that its diameter about femoral neck 14 is smaller than the diameter of deflated femoral head component 28 a , thereby allowing sleeve 33 to be pulled with substantial force , in turn allowing sleeve 33 and femoral head component 28 a to be introduced into acetabulum 8 . after insertion of the distal portion of femoral component 26 into femoral canal 22 , string 36 can be passed through lateral thigh incision 10 into acetabulum 8 where string 36 can be visualized with an arthroscope . a grasper ( not shown ) inserted into one of the arthroscopic portals 2 a , 2 b , 2 c can then be used to pull string 36 through the portal 2 a , 2 b , 2 c and bring insertion sleeve 33 containing the femoral head component 28 a into acetabulum 8 , as shown in fig1 . insertion sleeve 33 can be manufactured to include tab 38 on sleeve 33 . tab 38 can be pulled by an arthroscopic grasper ( not shown ) through arthroscopic portal 2 a , 2 b , 2 c after introduction of the deflated femoral head component 28 a into acetabulum 8 , as shown in fig1 . this releases the narrow base of sleeve 33 over the femoral head component 28 a and allows sleeve 33 to be pulled through arthroscopic portal 2 a , 2 b , 2 c with attached string 36 and removed from the body . positioning of femoral component 26 and deflated femoral head component 28 a can be confirmed with fluoroscopy . deflated femoral head component 28 a may then be injected with molding , resulting in inflated femoral head component 28 b , as depicted in fig1 . the indications and candidates for this procedure include non   ambulatory patients with hip fracture or patients with limited ambulatory capacity and hip fracture . this procedure would be less invasive than hip hemiarthroplasty . this procedure provides better pain relief than hip pinning , which requires a significant amount of healing prior to pain relief . better pain relief would allow patients to begin transfers in position sooner than with hip pinning . early ambulation after hip fracture is known to decrease complications such as deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary emboli . benefits of this procedure when compared to hip pinning are that patients would have pain relief similar to that experienced with a hemiarthroplasty without the protracted healing period required with hip pinning . benefits of this procedure when compared to hip hemiarthroplasty are that it is less invasive , and there is no violation of hip capsule with significantly less risk of hip dislocation . this feature would be especially beneficial in patients with dementia and neuromuscular disorders that dispose to dislocation . it will thus be seen that the objects set forth above , and those made apparent from the foregoing disclosure , are efficiently attained . since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention , it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing disclosure or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense . it is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described , and all statements of the scope of the invention that , as a matter of language , might be said to fall therebetween .
