detachment of a medical device from a delivery assembly can focus activity of electrolytic detachment to enhance detachment procedures . electrolytic activity can be focused by insulating nearby areas of a core wire and pre   treating a detachment zone to reduce crystallinity of the detachment zone . such a delivery system , can include an electrolytically corrodible core wire comprising a proximal portion , a distal portion , and a detachment zone between the proximal portion and the distal portion ; a proximal insulating layer annularly contacting the proximal portion ; a coil helically winding about and contacting at least a portion of the proximal insulating layer ; a tube annularly contacting at least a portion of the helical coil ; a distal insulating layer annularly contacting the distal portion ; and a hub of an implant annularly contacting at least a portion of the distal insulating layer ; wherein a distal end of the proximal insulating layer and a proximal end of the distal insulating layer are axially spaced apart to expose the detachment zone .
in the following detailed description , specific details are set forth to provide an understanding of the subject technology . it will be apparent , however , to one ordinarily skilled in the art that the subject technology may be practiced without some of these specific details . in other instances , well   known structures and techniques have not been shown in detail so as not to obscure the subject technology . in accordance with some embodiments disclosed herein is the realization that detachment of a medical device from a delivery assembly can be improved by enhancing features to focus the electrolytic corrosion activity . thus , various embodiments provide for detachment zones that can facilitate electrolytic detachment of a delivery mechanism , making the detachment process faster and more reliable . the medical device can be implanted in body cavities or blood vessels . in addition to the medical device , the delivery system can comprise a voltage source , a cathode , and a catheter . the medical device can be slid in the catheter in the longitudinal direction . a delivery wire may engage the medical device and be adapted to serve as an anode , such that a portion of the delivery wire is designed to be electrolytically corroded at one or more points so that while in contact with a body fluid , one or more portions of the medical device may be released from the delivery wire . according to some embodiments , fig1 presents an overview of a treatment system 10 including an implant 20 and a handle 42 . the handle 42 shown provides proximal access to a delivery wire that engages the implant 20 at a distal end . the catheter / pusher shaft 12 can include a simple extrusion ( e . g ., ptfe , fep , peek , etc .) or can be constructed using conventional catheter construction techniques and include a liner , braid support and outer jacket ( not shown ). a loading sheath 48 is typically provided over the shaft of a pusher 12 . a power supply 46 may be coupled to a proximal portion of the delivery wire 44 . the power supply 46 may also be coupled to a proximal portion of the handle 42 or to the patient . a current can flow from the power supply 46 , to a detachment zone at or near the implant 20 , and to a return path via the catheter shaft 12 ( and / or another structure extending near the detachment zone . alternatively , the current from the detachment zone may flow to the patient , and subsequently to ground or to the power supply 46 . power supply 46 , for example , may be a direct current power supply , an alternating current power supply , or a power supply switchable between a direct current and an alternating current . a positive terminal of a direct current power supply , as shown in fig1 , may be coupled to the proximal portion of the delivery wire 44 and a negative terminal of a direct current power supply may be coupled to the proximal portion of the handle 42 . power supply 46 may provide a current through the treatment system 10 to initiate an electrolytic process during use of the assembly in a fluid medium such as a bloodstream , which may be used as an electrolyte . a power supply , such as an alternating or direct current power supply , may additionally be used to initiate an electrothrombosis process . according to some embodiments , as shown in fig2 and 3 , an implant 20 delivered by the system 10 can be a braid ball . the braid ball 20 can be formed from tubular braid stock including a resilient material , such as nitinol , that defines an open volume ( generally round , spherical , ovular , heart   shaped , etc .) in an uncompressed / unconstrained state . the size of the implant can be selected to fill an aneurysm 2 , so the proximal end 53 of the device helps direct blood flow along the surface of the braid from which it is constructed to the branch vessels 8 . a distal end 56 of the ball can be dome   shaped . the braid ball 20 can include a single layer or two layers 26 , 28 ( inner and outer layer , respectively ) construction at least where impacted by flow at the neck 9 of the aneurysm 2 . as shown , one or more turns of a coil ( e . g ., pt wire ) or a band ( not shown ) can provide a distal radiopaque feature to mark the location of the implant 20 . some exemplary implants that can be used in conjunction with the systems described herein are disclosed at u . s . pub . no . 2013 / 0123830 , published on may 16 , 2013 , the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference . according to some embodiments , the implant 20 can include a hub 50 at a proximal end 53 thereof . the hub 50 can be fixedly attached to the remainder of the implant 20 . for example , the hub 50 can grasp braided filaments of the layers 26 , 28 of the implant 20 . the hub 50 can provide an aperture 54 for receiving engagement and release mechanisms of a delivery system . according to some embodiments , the implant 20 can be set within an aneurysm sac 2 at a vascular bifurcation 4 , formed by trunk vessel 6 and efferent vessels 8 . the implant 20 can be delivered by access through the trunk vessel 6 ( e . g ., the basilar artery ), preferably through a commercially available microcatheter with a delivery system as detailed below . to deliver the implant 20 , the pusher sleeve 12 is positioned such that the implant 20 can be delivered at least partially into the aneurysm sac 2 . after final positioning is achieved as shown in fig3 , engagement members are released from the implant 20 ( e . g ., from a hub 50 of the implant 20 ), as discussed further herein . finally , the pusher sleeve 12 is withdrawn into the delivery catheter 48 . while the implant 20 can be a braid ball as illustrated herein , the implant 20 can have any other form or structure , according to various embodiments . for example , the implant 20 can be a vasoocclusive coil , a cylindrical , tube   like stent , or a filter . other types of implants are generally known . the subject technology can be applied to any such implant for delivery and detachment thereof . for example , a given implant can include a hub 50 for engagement and release by a delivery system , as disclosed further herein . traditional electrolytic detachment members are generally a single wire with a constant diameter . these detach wires are generally as drawn and are very corrosion resistant due to the crystalline structure . generally , when these detach wires are used they will leave behind small particulates and these particulates interfere with mri imaging and also could lead to secondary stroke if particulates flow to distal vessels . detachment time can be reduced by concentrating erosion to a limited area . according to some embodiments , as shown in fig4 and 5 , a delivery system 10 includes an electrolytically corrodible core wire 29 , having a proximal portion 31 , a distal portion 33 , and a detachment zone 30 is between the proximal portion 31 and the distal portion 33 . at least a portion of the core wire 29 , including the detachment zone 30 , can be coated with a conductive material , such as carbon , gold , platinum , tantalum , combinations thereof , and the like . one or more metallic coatings can be applied using known plating techniques . the core wire 29 , including the detachment zone 30 , can include one or more of the following materials : ceramic materials , plastics , base metals or alloys thereof , and preferably stainless steel . some of the most suitable material combinations for forming the electrolytically corrodible points can include one or more of the following : stainless steels , preferably of the type aisi 301 , 304 , 316 , or subgroups thereof ; ti or tini alloys ; co   based alloys ; noble metals ; or noble metal alloys , such as pt , pt metals , pt alloys , au alloys , or sn alloys . further , ceramic materials and plastics employed for forming the medical device can be electrically conductive . according to some embodiments , portions of the core wire 29 can be coated with a nonconductive material . a proximal insulating layer 34 can be provided over at least a portion of an outer surface of the proximal portion 31 of the core wire 29 . for example , the proximal insulating layer 34 can circumferentially surround an outer surface of the proximal portion 31 . a distal insulating layer 32 can be provided over at least a portion of an outer surface of the distal portion 33 of the core wire 29 . for example , the distal insulating layer 32 can circumferentially surround and contact an outer surface of the distal portion 33 . the proximal and distal insulating layers 34 , 32 can be of an electrically nonconductive or insulative polymer , such as polyimide , polypropylene , polyolefins , combinations thereof , and the like . according to some embodiments , proximal and distal insulating layers 34 , 32 leave exposed the detachment zone 30 of the core wire 29 . when in contact with a body fluid , such as blood , the fluid serves as an electrolyte allowing current to be focused on the non   coated detachment zone 30 . the proximal and distal insulating layers 34 , 32 prevent exposure of the proximal portion 31 and distal portion 33 to the fluid . accordingly , electrical energy conducted along the core wire 29 is concentrated at the detachment zone 30 , thereby reducing the time required to erode away the detachment zone 30 . the proximal and distal insulating layers 34 , 32 can be over   molded , co   extruded , sprayed on , or dip   coated with respect to the core wire 29 . laser ablation can be employed to selectively remove the coating to a controlled length minimizing the time required to erode through the component . lengths as small as 0 . 0005 ″ and as large as 0 . 1 ″ or longer can be removed . according to some embodiments , lengths of detachment zone 30 can be greater than 0 . 005 ″ and / or less than 0 . 010 ″ to provide sufficient exposure to achieve detachment times of less than 30 seconds . according to some embodiments , the distal insulating layer 32 is disposed radially between the distal portion 33 of the core wire 29 and the hub 50 of an implant 20 . as shown in fig5 , an inner band 52 of the hub 50 circumferentially surrounds and contacts the distal insulating layer 32 . an outer band 51 surrounds the inner band 52 , such distal portions of the layers 26 , 28 of the implant 20 are grasped between the inner and outer bands 52 , 51 of the hub 50 . as shown in fig5 , the distal insulating layer 32 electrically isolates the implant 20 from an electrical charge conducted along a length of the core wire 29 . a proximal end of the distal insulating layer 32 may be positioned proximal to the hub 50 , and a distal end of the distal insulating layer 32 may be positioned distal to the hub 50 . likewise , a proximal end of the distal portion 33 may be positioned proximal to the hub 50 , and a distal end of the distal portion 33 may be positioned distal to the hub 50 , such that the distal portion 33 extends through and distally beyond a lumen formed by the hub 50 . alternatively , the proximal end of the distal insulating layer 32 may be coterminous with a proximal end of the hub 50 , and / or a distal end of the distal insulating layer 32 may be coterminous with a distal end of the hub 50 . likewise , the proximal end of the distal portion 33 may be coterminous with a proximal end of the hub 50 , and / or a distal end of the distal portion 33 may be coterminous with a distal end of the hub 50 . according to some embodiments , a distal marker coil 36 is wound helically about an outer surface of the proximal insulating layer 34 . the distal marker coil 36 can be of a radiopaque material , such as platinum , gold , palladium , iridium , and alloys thereof . the distal marker coil 36 terminates at a proximal end thereof adjacent to a core wire end cap 60 . the distal marker coil 36 can be between about 10 and about 40 mm in length , for example , about 30 mm . the distal marker coil 36 can be attached to the core wire end cap 60 by one or more welds 62 . the core wire end cap 60 can be in physical contact and electrical conduction with the core wire 29 . an insulative layer 38 can be provided about an outer surface of the distal marker coil 36 . for example , as shown in fig5 , the insulative layer 38 can extend over an entire length of the distal marker coil 36 and distally beyond the distal marker coil 36 , such that every portion of the distal marker coil 36 is covered by the insulative layer 38 . a distal end of the insulative layer 38 may contact and / or be adhered to the proximal insulating layer 34 . the insulative layer 38 can be of an insulative biocompatible polymer material , such as polytetrafluoroethylene ( ptfe ). the insulative layer 38 may be shrink   wrapped over the corresponding portion of the delivery wire 10 . the distal marker coil 36 terminates at a proximal end thereof adjacent to a core wire end cap 60 . the distal marker coil 36 can be attached to the core wire end cap 60 by one or more welds 62 . the core wire end cap 60 can be attached to a pusher wire end cap 70 , located at a distal end of a pusher wire 74 . according to some embodiments , a proximal marker coil 66 is wound helically about an outer surface of the pusher wire 74 . the proximal marker coil 66 can be of a radiopaque material , such as platinum , gold , palladium , iridium , and alloys thereof . the proximal marker coil 66 terminates at a distal end thereof adjacent to the pusher wire end cap 70 . the proximal marker coil 66 can be about 1 mm in length . the proximal marker coil 66 can be attached to the pusher wire end cap 70 by one or more welds 64 . the pusher wire end cap 70 can be in physical contact and electrical conduction with the pusher wire 74 . the pusher wire end cap 70 and the core wire end cap 60 can be connected by an interface 68 ( e . g ., a weld ), configured to provide an electrically conductive connection between the pusher wire end cap 70 and the core wire end cap 60 . furthermore , an interface 68 can provide sufficient column strength to transfer an axial force applied to the pusher wire 74 to the proximal portion 31 of the core wire 29 . according to some embodiments , an insulative cover 72 can be provided about an outer surface of the proximal marker coil 66 . for example , as shown in fig5 , the insulative cover 72 can extend over an entire length of the proximal marker coil 66 and proximally beyond the proximal marker coil 66 , such that every portion of the proximal marker coil 66 is covered by the insulative cover 72 . a distal end of the insulative cover 72 may contact and / or be adhered to the pusher wire 74 . the insulative cover 72 can be of an insulative biocompatible polymer material , such as polytetrafluoroethylene ( ptfe ). the insulative cover 72 may be shrink   wrapped over the corresponding portion of the delivery wire 10 . the insulative cover 72 can be adjacent to or integral with the insulative layer 38 . a cover 76 may be provided over at least a portion of the delivery wire 10 , including portions of the insulative layer 38 and the insulative cover 72 . according to some embodiments , as shown in fig6 , a pusher wire 74 can be integrally connected to the proximal portion 31 of the core wire 29 . accordingly , an electric charge applied to the pusher wire 74 can be conducted through the pusher wire 74 , the proximal portion 31 of the core wire 29 , and the detachment zone 30 . furthermore , an axial force applied to the pusher wire 74 can result in an axial movement of the core wire 29 and the implant 20 . according to some embodiments , as shown in fig7 , the core wire 29 can include an anchor end 27 at a terminal distal end of the core wire 29 . the anchor end 27 can be located distal to the hub 50 . for example , the anchor end 27 can be located within an interior portion of the implant 20 . the anchor end 27 can have a maximum cross   sectional dimension that is greater than an inner cross   sectional dimension of the inner band 52 . accordingly , the core wire 29 is prevented from moving proximally entirely through the inner band 52 . for example , an interface between the distal insulating layer 32 and the inner band 52 or an interface between the distal insulating layer 32 and the core wire 29 may allow a degree of movement of the core wire 29 relative to the inner band 52 . to prevent the core wire 29 from being removed distally from within the inner band 52 , the anchor end 27 can be of a size that cannot pass entirely proximally through the inner band 52 . according to some embodiments , a detachment zone 30 can be configured such that the corrodible portion thereof defines a unique structure configured to enhance electrolytic corrosion while preserving the structural characteristics thereof , a reduction in corrosion resistance will reduce a time required to deploy an intravascular and / or intrasaccular implant , thus reducing the overall procedure time . according to some embodiments , corrosion resistance of detachment zone 30 is decreased by exposure to laser or other energy , causing the detachment zone 30 to be structurally modified by heat . as a result , the detachment zone 30 will have a different microstructure than the material outside of the zone ( e . g ., the proximal portion 31 and / or the distal portion 33 of the core wire 29 ). the result will decrease the time to electrolytically plate off the material , resulting in faster detachment times . the laser energy will create surface defects for a reduction in corrosion resistance . the laser energy will also alter the microstructure at a specific area , leading to a non   uniform corrosion rate . accordingly , the preferred corrosion site can have a faster detach time . according to some embodiments , the proximal portion 31 and / or the distal portion 33 have a microstructure with a crystallinity that is greater than a crystallinity of a microstructure of the detachment zone 30 . according to some embodiments , the detachment zone 30 comprises a microstructure that is more amorphous than each of ( i ) a microstructure of the proximal portion 31 and ( ii ) a microstructure of the distal portion 33 . according to some embodiments , a method of treating a delivery system includes providing an electrolytically corrodible core wire 29 comprising a proximal portion 31 , a distal portion 33 , and a detachment zone 30 between the proximal portion 31 and the distal portion 33 . the detachment zone 30 is treated to produce a microstructure in the detachment zone 30 that is more amorphous than each of ( i ) a microstructure of the proximal portion 31 and ( ii ) a microstructure of the distal portion 33 . according to some embodiments , a detachment zone 30 can be configured such that the corrodible portion thereof defines a unique surface structure or texture configured to enhance electrolytic corrosion while preserving the structural characteristics thereof . for example , the cross   sectional profile of the detachment zone can define at least one concavity , valley , recess , and / or indentation formed therein . in accordance with some embodiments , the cross   sectional profile of the detachment zone can define areas of positive curvature , such as one or more peaks , protrusions , and / or convexities , with areas of negative curvature , such as one or more valleys , recesses , concavities , and / or indentations . the one or more peaks , protrusions , and / or convexities and the one or more valleys , recesses , concavities , or indentations can be formed from surface structures such as grooves , channels , pits , threads , elongate troughs , circumferential or annular grooves , slots , apertures , coils , crimped ribbon , slotted ribbon , perforated ribbon , and / or other such structures that are precisely or randomly arranged . the shape of the cross   sectional profile of the connector body can be defined by one or more linear edges , parallel linear edges , intersecting linear edges , continuous curves , and / or combinations thereof . by providing a surface structure or texture , some embodiments can thereby provide an increased surface area of the detachment zone in order to enhance the contact area of the component 206 , reduce the overall volume of the detachment zone , and thereby improve the rate of corrosion . further , various embodiments can be provided that are configured to provide excellent structural characteristics in order to ensure that the detachment zone is sufficiently robust and durable . for example , in some embodiments , the component can have a component body comprising at least one structure , such as a trough , valley , recess , concavity , or indentation defining a recess surface area . in accordance with some embodiments , the component can be configured such that the valley , recess , concavity , or indentation can be used in the component without reducing structural characteristics of the component . further , the structure of the detachment zone can add recess surface area to the overall surface area of the detachment zone , thereby enhancing electrolytic corrosion of the detachment zone . thus , the ratio of surface area to volume of the detachment zone can increase with an increase in overall surface area and a decrease in volume of the component . as discussed herein , the increase in the overall surface area of the detachment zone can be achieved by the incremental addition of surface area of the structure ( e . g ., the valley , recess , concavity , or indentation ) versus the surface area of a surface without such a structure ( e . g ., a planar surface ). the decrease in volume can be achieved by the addition of the void created by the valley , recess , concavity , or indentation . additionally , the detachment zone can be fabricated to provide features that will lead to an increased current density in one or more areas of the detachment zone . such features can include , for example , ridges , edges , small radius corners , valleys , troughs , concavities , recesses , indentations , and / or other structures . in some embodiments , the presence of some of these structures on the detachment zone can reduce the local cross sectional area and / or otherwise contribute to the galvanic reaction . features that increase current density can accelerate the galvanic reaction . additionally , according to some embodiments , the electrolytically corrodible detachment zone can be fabricated using a mechanical cold working operation . the cold working of the detachment zone can be performed through operations such as stamping , drawing , squeezing , bending , and / or other processes . the cold working of the detachment zone can enhance the galvanic reaction or corrosion . for example , as discussed herein , the detachment zone can comprise one or more structures or have a cross section that increases the surface area to volume ratio , which can enhance the galvanic reaction . further , the process of cold working can alter the material properties of the detachment zone , which can improve the anodic quality or corrodibility of the detachment zone . cold working can induce stresses in the material of the detachment zone , which can be released during the galvanic reaction , thus facilitating the galvanic reaction . thus , fabrication of the detachment zone through a cold working operation can further enhance the galvanic reaction . furthermore , in accordance with some embodiments , the body of detachment zone can comprise a hollow portion that extends at least partially along the length of the body of detachment zone . the hollow portion can be formed as a discrete bubble or as an internal tubular vacuity extending within the body of detachment zone . in accordance with some embodiments , the tubular vacuity can extend longitudinally within the body of detachment zone . the hollow portion can define one or more sections that are exposed or open to an exterior of the connector body . accordingly , in such embodiments , the rate of corrosion can be enhanced . further , it is possible to thereby provide one or more areas where corrosion can be accelerated significantly as the corrosion process reaches the hollow portion ( s ) of the body of detachment zone . as such , one or more hollow portions can be present at one or more sections or points along the body of detachment zone . accordingly , in some embodiments , the presence of the surface structure ( s ) on the detachment zone can provide an increased ratio of surface area to volume , compared to a detachment zone that does not have such a structure . thus , with a higher ratio of surface area to volume , the galvanic reaction can be faster , more predictable , and more effective for some embodiments . further , in some embodiments , the presence of a surface feature ( s ) on the detachment zone can provide increased current density at such feature ( s ), compared to a detachment zone that does not have such a feature ( s ). with a higher current density , the galvanic reaction can be faster , more predictable , and more effective for some embodiments . other features and discussion of electrolytically corrodible connections is provided in other applications of the present assignee , including the discussion and disclosure of u . s . patent application publication no . 2012 / 0010648 and u . s . pat . nos . 7 , 323 , 000 , and 8 , 048 , 104 , the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by reference . electrolytically non   corrodible sections of the delivery wire 44 can contain one or more of the following materials : noble metals or noble metal alloys , corrosion   resistant ceramic materials , corrosion   resistant plastics , and preferably platinum metal alloys . the use of the above mentioned materials for the formation of electrolytically non   corrodible sections and of the electrolytically corrodible flanges ensures specific electrolytic corrosion of the flanges at the predetermined points . in accordance with some embodiments , the electrolytically corrodible detachment zone can also be pre   corroded by etching or other methods . thus , the structure ( s ) of a given cross   sectional profile can be modified to reduce the presence of corners , increase the recess depth , and / or otherwise enhance the corrosion rate . further , various excellent structural designs can be provided to achieve desired corrosion performance through the teachings disclosed herein without pre   corrosion of the corrodible points . some embodiments can include a corrodible detachment zone that has a partial coating of a material to provide a greater or lesser electrochemical resistance . thus , in embodiments that have one or more corrodible points , the electrochemical resistance of the points can be varied to achieve staged or preferential electrochemical resistance . coatings of zn , sn , or alloys of such metals on fittings of stainless steel have been found to be particularly satisfactory . further , some embodiments , the end of the delivery wire can be insulated , for example , by a material coating with reduced corrosion properties or a shrunk   on sleeve to improve its electrochemical resistance . embodiments disclosed herein can be used in veterinary or human medicine and more particularly , for the endovascular treatment of intracranial aneurysms and acquired or innate arteriovenous blood vessel deformities and / or fistulas and / or for the embolization of tumors by thrombozation . the apparatus and methods discussed herein are not limited to the deployment and use of an occluding device within any particular vessels , but can include any number of different types of vessels . for example , in some aspects , vessels can include arteries or veins . in some aspects , the vessels can be suprathoracic vessels ( e . g ., vessels in the neck or above ), intrathoracic vessels ( e . g ., vessels in the thorax ), subthoracic vessels ( e . g ., vessels in the abdominal area or below ), lateral thoracic vessels ( e . g ., vessels to the sides of the thorax such as vessels in the shoulder area and beyond ), or other types of vessels and / or branches thereof . in some aspects , the stent delivery systems disclosed herein can be deployed within superthoracic vessels . the suprathoracic vessels can comprise at least one of intracranial vessels , cerebral arteries , and / or any branches thereof . in some aspects , the stent delivery systems disclosed herein can be deployed within intrathoracic vessels . the intrathoracic vessels can comprise the aorta or branches thereof . in some aspects , the stent delivery systems disclosed herein can be deployed within subthoracic vessels . in some aspects , the stent delivery systems disclosed herein can be deployed within lateral thoracic vessels . the foregoing description is provided to enable a person skilled in the art to practice the various configurations described herein . while the subject technology has been particularly described with reference to the various figures and configurations , it should be understood that these are for illustration purposes only and should not be taken as limiting the scope of the subject technology . there may be many other ways to implement the subject technology . various functions and elements described herein may be partitioned differently from those shown without departing from the scope of the subject technology . various modifications to these configurations will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art , and generic principles defined herein may be applied to other configurations . thus , many changes and modifications may be made to the subject technology , by one having ordinary skill in the art , without departing from the scope of the subject technology . a phrase such as “ an aspect ” does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology . a disclosure relating to an aspect may apply to all configurations , or one or more configurations . an aspect may provide one or more examples of the disclosure . a phrase such as “ an aspect ” may refer to one or more aspects and vice versa . a phrase such as “ an embodiment ” does not imply that such embodiment is essential to the subject technology or that such embodiment applies to all configurations of the subject technology . a disclosure relating to an embodiment may apply to all embodiments , or one or more embodiments . an embodiment may provide one or more examples of the disclosure . a phrase such “ an embodiment ” may refer to one or more embodiments and vice versa . a phrase such as “ a configuration ” does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology . a disclosure relating to a configuration may apply to all configurations , or one or more configurations . a configuration may provide one or more examples of the disclosure . a phrase such as “ a configuration ” may refer to one or more configurations and vice versa . it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of exemplary approaches . based upon design preferences , it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged . some of the steps may be performed simultaneously . the accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order , and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented . as used herein , the phrase “ at least one of ” preceding a series of items , with the term “ and ” or “ or ” to separate any of the items , modifies the list as a whole , rather than each member of the list ( i . e ., each item ). the phrase “ at least one of ” does not require selection of at least one of each item listed ; rather , the phrase allows a meaning that includes at least one of any one of the items , and / or at least one of any combination of the items , and / or at least one of each of the items . by way of example , the phrases “ at least one of a , b , and c ” or “ at least one of a , b , or c ” each refer to only a , only b , or only c ; any combination of a , b , and c ; and / or at least one of each of a , b , and c . terms such as “ top ,” “ bottom ,” “ front ,” “ rear ” and the like as used in this disclosure should be understood as referring to an arbitrary frame of reference , rather than to the ordinary gravitational frame of reference . thus , a top surface , a bottom surface , a front surface , and a rear surface may extend upwardly , downwardly , diagonally , or horizontally in a gravitational frame of reference . furthermore , to the extent that the term “ include ,” “ have ,” or the like is used in the description or the claims , such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term “ comprise ” as “ comprise ” is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim . the word “ exemplary ” is used herein to mean “ serving as an example , instance , or illustration .” any embodiment described herein as “ exemplary ” is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments . a reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean “ one and only one ” unless specifically stated , but rather “ one or more .” pronouns in the masculine ( e . g ., his ) include the feminine and neuter gender ( e . g ., her and its ) and vice versa . the term “ some ” refers to one or more . underlined and / or italicized headings and subheadings are used for convenience only , do not limit the subject technology , and are not referred to in connection with the interpretation of the description of the subject technology . all structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various configurations described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and intended to be encompassed by the subject technology . moreover , nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the above description . while certain aspects and embodiments of the subject technology have been described , these have been presented by way of example only , and are not intended to limit the scope of the subject technology . indeed , the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms without departing from the spirit thereof . the accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and spirit of the subject technology .
