the present disclosure discloses an α   alumina carrier , comprising the elements of lanthanum and silicon both dispersed in the interior and on the surface of the carrier . the mass ratio of the element of lanthanum to the element of silicon is in the range from 0 . 1 : 1 to 20 : 1 . the inventors of the present disclosure have made extensive researches into the field of the silver catalyst and alumina carrier thereof , and added the elements of lanthanum and silicon in preparing the alumina carrier used in the silver catalyst . the carrier thus obtained contains the elements of silicon and lanthanum both in the interior and on the surface thereof , and has improved specific surface area and strength . the silver catalyst prepared with the carrier can react in a low reaction temperature and has a high selectivity in producing ethylene oxide through oxidation of ethylene .
the present disclosure will be further explained in conjunction with specific examples , which are not to limit the scope of the present disclosure . the α   alumina carrier of the present disclosure is modified by the elements of lanthanum and silicon . the carrier can be used for producing ethylene oxide by oxidation of ethylene . in some embodiments , the mass ratio of the element of lanthanum to the element of silicon in the carrier is in the range from 0 . 1 : 1 to 20 : 1 . in some embodiments , the mass ratio of the element of lanthanum to the element of silicon in the carrier is in the range from 0 . 5 : 1 to 2 . 5 : 1 . in some embodiments , the mass ratio of the element of lanthanum to the element of silicon in the carrier is in the range from 3 . 0 : 1 to 4 . 5 : 1 . in some embodiments , the mass ratio of the element of lanthanum to the element of silicon in the carrier is in the range from 5 . 0 : 1 to 7 . 5 : 1 . in some embodiments , the mass ratio of the element of lanthanum to the element of silicon in the carrier is in the range from 8 . 0 : 1 to 12 . 0 : 1 . in some embodiments , the mass ratio of the element of lanthanum to the element of silicon in the carrier is in the range from 2 . 0 : 1 to 10 . 0 : 1 . in some embodiments , the mass ratio of the element of lanthanum to the element of silicon in the carrier is in the range from 2 . 0 : 1 to 9 . 0 : 1 . in some other embodiments , the mass ratio of the element of lanthanum to the element of silicon in the carrier is in the range from 2 . 0 : 1 to 8 . 0 : 1 . the initial activity and selectivity of the silver catalysts involved in the present disclosure were measured by a laboratory microreactor ( hereinafter “ microreactor ”) evaluation device , which is a stainless steel tube with an inner diameter of 4 mm and is arranged in a heating jacket . the loading volume of the catalyst is 1 ml filled with an inert filler at a lower portion thereof , so that the catalyst bed is located in a constant temperature zone of the heating jacket . the activity and selectivity measurement conditions employed in the present disclosure were as follows . when the above reaction conditions were stably obtained , the composition of the gasses at the inlet and outlet of the reactor were constantly measured . the measurement results after applying volume shrinkage correction were used for calculation of the selectivity ( s ) by the following formula : in the above formula , δeo represents the differential concentration of ethylene oxide in the inlet gas and the outlet gas , and δco 2 represents the differential concentration of carbon dioxide in the inlet gas and the outlet gas . the average of 10 groups of test data was taken as the test result of the day . a mixture of 372 g of trihydrate alumina having a particle size in the range from 200 meshes to 500 meshes , 112 g of pseudo bohemite having a particle size in the range from 200 meshes to 400 meshes , 3 g of mgf 2 , and 0 . 5 g of ba ( no 3 ) 2 were added into a mixer and homogeneously blended , and then transferred to a kneader , followed by addition of 90 ml of dilute nitric acid solution ( the weight ratio of nitric acid to water being 1 : 3 ) into the kneader . the resulting mixture was kneaded into an extrudable and moldable paste , and extrusion molded into five   hole cylinder bodies , of which the outer diameter , length , and inner diameter were 8 . 0 mm , 6 . 0 mm , and 1 . 0 mm , respectively . the cylinder bodies were dried for 10 h at a temperature in the range from 80 ° c . to 120 ° c . to reduce the free water content thereof to be lower than 10 wt %, so as to prepare the green bodies of molded α   alumina carriers . the green bodies were then put into an electric furnace , which was heated from room temperature to 1 , 400 ° c . within 30 h and kept constant at this temperature for 2 h to obtain the white α   alumina carriers named z   1 . the side crushing strength , water adsorption , and specific surface area of z   1 were measured and the results thereof are shown in table 1 . a mixture of 372 g of trihydrate alumina having a particle size in the range from 200 meshes to 500 meshes , 112 g of pseudo bohemite having a particle size in the range from 200 meshes to 400 meshes , 3 g of mgf 2 , 0 . 5 g of ba ( no 3 ) 2 , and 0 . 51 g of sio 2 were added into a mixer and homogeneously blended , and then transferred to a kneader , followed by addition of 90 ml of dilute nitric acid solution ( the weight ratio of nitric acid to water being 1 : 3 ) into the kneader . the resulting mixture was kneaded into an extrudable and moldable paste , and extrusion molded into five   hole cylinder bodies , of which the outer diameter , length , and inner diameter were 8 . 0 mm , 6 . 0 mm , and 1 . 0 mm , respectively . the cylinder bodies were dried for 10 h at a temperature in the range from 80 ° c . to 120 ° c . to reduce the free water content thereof to be lower than 10 wt %, so as to prepare the green bodies of molded α   alumina carriers . the green bodies were then put into an electric furnace , which was heated from room temperature to 1 , 400 ° c . within 30 h and kept constant at this temperature for 2 h to obtain the white α   alumina carriers named z   2 . the side crushing strength , water adsorption , and specific surface area of z   2 were measured and the results thereof are shown in table 1 . a mixture of 372 g of trihydrate alumina having a particle size in the range from 200 meshes to 500 meshes , 112 g of pseudo bohemite having a particle size in the range from 200 meshes to 400 meshes , 3 g of mgf 2 , 0 . 5 g of ba ( no 3 ) 2 , and 0 . 58 g of la 2 o 3 were added into a mixer and homogeneously blended , and then transferred to a kneader , followed by addition of 90 ml of dilute nitric acid solution ( the weight ratio of nitric acid to water being 1 : 3 ) into the kneader . the resulting mixture was kneaded into an extrudable and moldable paste , and extrusion molded into five   hole cylinder bodies , of which the outer diameter , length , and inner diameter were 8 . 0 mm , 6 . 0 mm , and 1 . 0 mm , respectively . the cylinder bodies were dried for 10 h at a temperature in the range from 80 ° c . to 120 ° c . to reduce the free water content thereof to be lower than 10 wt %, so as to prepare the green bodies of molded α   alumina carriers . the green bodies were then put into an electric furnace , which was heated from room temperature to 1 , 400 ° c . within 30 h and kept constant at this temperature for 2 h to obtain the white α   alumina carriers named z   3 . the side crushing strength , water adsorption , and specific surface area of z   3 were measured and the results thereof are shown in table 1 . a mixture of 372 g of trihydrate alumina having a particle size in the range from 200 meshes to 500 meshes , 112 g of pseudo bohemite having a particle size in the range from 200 meshes to 400 meshes , 3 g of mgf 2 , 0 . 5 g of ba ( no 3 ) 2 , 0 . 58 g of la 2 o 3 , and 0 . 51 g of sio 2 were added into a mixer and homogeneously blended , and then transferred to a kneader , followed by addition of 90 ml of dilute nitric acid solution ( the weight ratio of nitric acid to water being 1 : 3 ) into the kneader . the resulting mixture was kneaded into an extrudable and moldable paste , and extrusion molded into five   hole cylinder bodies , of which the outer diameter , length , and inner diameter were 8 . 0 mm , 6 . 0 mm , and 1 . 0 mm , respectively . the cylinder bodies were dried for 10 h at a temperature in the range from 80 ° c . to 120 ° c . to reduce the free water content thereof to be lower than 10 wt %, so as to prepare the green bodies of molded α   alumina carriers . the green bodies were then put into an electric furnace , which was heated from room temperature to 1 , 400 ° c . within 30 h and kept constant at this temperature for 2 h to obtain the white α   alumina carriers named z   4 . the side crushing strength , water adsorption , and specific surface area of z   4 were measured and the results thereof are shown in table 1 . the steps were the same as those in example 4 except that the mixture contained 1 . 14 g of la 2 o 3 , and the white α   al 2 o 3 carrier obtained was named z   5 . the side crushing strength , water adsorption , and specific surface area of z   5 were measured and the results thereof are shown in table 1 . the steps were the same as those in example 4 except that the mixture contained 1 . 71 g of la 2 o 3 , and the white α   al 2 o 3 carrier obtained was named z   6 . the side crushing strength , water adsorption , and specific surface area of z   6 were measured and the results thereof are shown in table 1 . the steps were the same as those in example 4 except that the mixture contained 2 . 28 g of la 2 o 3 , and the white α   al 2 o 3 carrier obtained was named z   7 . the side crushing strength , water adsorption , and specific surface area of z   7 were measured and the results thereof are shown in table 1 . table 1 indicates that the alumina carrier of the present disclosure has significantly improved side crushing strength and reduced water adsorption , which is beneficial for used of the carrier . the alumina carrier of the present disclosure has a significantly improved specific surface area which can facilitate dispersion of silver . 700 g of silver nitrate was taken and dissolved in 750 ml of deionized water to obtain a solution . 325 g of ammonium oxalate was taken and dissolved into 250 ml of deionized water at 50 ° c . to obtain a solution . the above two solutions were mixed under violent stirring to generate a white precipitate of silver oxalate . after 1 h of aging treatment , filtration was performed and the filter cake obtained was washed with deionized water until there was no nitrate ion in the filtrate . a filter cake of a silver oxalate paste , which contained 60 wt % of the metal silver and 15 wt % of water , was thus obtained . 300 g of ethylenediamine , 110 g of ethanol amine , and 375 g of deionized water were added into a glass flask having a stirrer to obtain a mixed solution . the silver oxalate paste prepared above was slowly added into the mixed solution under stirring at a temperature kept in the range from − 5 ° c . to 10 ° c ., so as to enable complete dissolution of the silver oxalate . subsequently , 2 . 2 g of cesium sulfate and 1 . 4 g of strontium acetate were added , which preceded addition of deionized water so that the total mass of the solution reached 2 , 000 g . thus , impregnation liquid m , which contained 22 wt % of silver , was prepared for use . 100 g of the sample of z   1 prepared in example 1 was taken and put into a container that could be vacuum pumped . the absolute pressure in the container was pumped to be lower than 10 mmhg and impregnation liquid m prepared above was added to impregnate the carrier for a period of 30 min . next , redundant solution was removed through leaching . the carrier after being impregnated was heated for 5 min in an air flow at 350 ° c ., and then cooled down to obtain a silver catalyst named cz   1 . the steps were the same as those in example 8 except that 100 g of carrier z   1 was replaced by 100 g of carrier z   2 , and the silver catalyst obtained was named cz   2 . the steps were the same as those in example 8 except that 100 g of carrier z   1 was replaced by 100 g of carrier z   3 , and the silver catalyst obtained was named cz   3 . the steps were the same as those in example 8 except that 100 g of carrier z   1 was replaced by 100 g of carrier z   4 , and the silver catalyst obtained was named cz   4 . the steps were the same as those in example 8 except that 100 g of carrier z   1 was replaced by 100 g of carrier z   5 , and the silver catalyst obtained was named cz   5 . the steps were the same as those in example 8 except that 100 g of carrier z   1 was replaced by 100 g of carrier z   6 , and the silver catalyst obtained was named cz   6 . the steps were the same as those in example 8 except that 100 g of carrier z   1 was replaced by 100 g of carrier z   7 , and the silver catalyst obtained was named cz   7 . the steps were the same as those in example 8 except the following points . 2 . 41 g of na 2 sio 3 · 9h 2 o and 3 . 15 g of lacl 3 · 7h 2 o were added into impregnation liquid m to obtain an impregnation liquid containing the elements of silicon and lanthanum . 100 g of the carrier sample z   1 prepared in example 1 was taken and added into a container that could be vacuum pumped . the absolute pressure in the container was pumped to be lower than 10 mmhg , followed by addition of the impregnation liquid prepared above containing the elements of silicon and lanthanum to impregnate the carrier for 30 min . the redundant solution was then removed by leaching . the carrier after being impregnated was heated for 5 min in an air flow at 350 ° c ., and then cooled down to obtain a silver catalyst named cz   8 . the catalysts cz   1 , cz   2 , cz   3 , cz   4 , cz   5 , cz   6 , cz   7 , and cz   8 prepared in examples 8 to 14 were each analyzed for contents of silver and additives based on the metals , respectively . the results thereof show that the contents of silver and additives ( caesium and strontium ) among the catalysts were more or less the same with one another , respectively , wherein the contents of silver , caesium , and strontium were about 16 . 1 wt %, 360 ppm , and 280 ppm , respectively . in addition , the activity and selectivity of each of the catalysts were measured by the microcreator evaluation device under the process conditions as described above under “ measurement of catalytic performance ”. the data above temperature and selectivity on the 7th day of the reaction were listed in table 2 . table 2 indicates that , compared to an existing catalyst having a carrier which contains no silicon or lanthanum , the catalyst containing the carrier of the present disclosure has a lower reaction temperature , i . e ., a significantly improved reaction activity , while keeping a high selectivity of the silver catalyst . compared to a catalyst prepared by a carrier containing only silicon , the catalyst of the present disclosure possesses significantly improved selectivity while ensuring a low reaction temperature ( i . e ., a high reaction activity ). compared to a catalyst prepared by a carrier containing only lanthanum , the catalyst of the present disclosure possesses improved selectivity while ensuring a low reaction temperature ( i . e ., a high reaction activity ). and compared to a catalyst impregnated with the elements of silicon and lanthanum on the surface thereof ( cz   8 ), the catalyst of the present disclosure has improved reaction activity and selectivity . table 2 shows that compared to a catalyst containing only the element of silicon or lanthanum ( cz   2 or cz   3 ), the catalyst of the present disclosure ( cz   4 to cz   7 ) which contains the elements of silicon and lanthanum presents a synergistic effect , and can further improve selectivity while keeping a low reaction temperature ( i . e ., a high reaction activity ). it should be noted that the above examples are only used to explain , rather than to limit the present disclosure in any manner . although the present disclosure has been discussed with reference to preferable examples , it should be understood that the terms and expressions adopted are for describing and explaining instead of limiting the present disclosure . the present disclosure can be modified within the scope of the claims , and can be amended without departing from the scope or spirits of the present disclosure . although the present disclosure is described with specific methods , materials , and examples , the scope of the present disclosure herein disclosed should not be limited by the particularly disclosed examples as described above , but can be extended to other methods and uses having the same functions .
