in a method and an apparatus for affecting the cornering performance of a motor vehicle , a transverse acceleration of the motor vehicle is determined , a desired transverse tilt of the motor vehicle defined based on the determined transverse acceleration , at least one actuator of an active suspension system of the motor vehicle is adjusted so that the motor vehicle assumes the desired transverse tilt , and an additional actuator intervening in the steering system of the motor vehicle . a yaw movement of the motor vehicle caused by the adjustment of the at least one actuator of the active suspension system is at least partially compensated by the additional actuator .
throughout all the figures , same or corresponding elements may generally be indicated by same reference numerals . these depicted embodiments are to be understood as illustrative of the invention and not as limiting in any way . it should also be understood that the figures are not necessarily to scale and that the embodiments are sometimes illustrated by graphic symbols , phantom lines , diagrammatic representations and fragmentary views . in certain instances , details which are not necessary for an understanding of the present invention or which render other details difficult to perceive may have been omitted . turning now to the drawing , and in particular to fig1 , there is shown a motor vehicle 10 moving in a driving direction indicated by the arrow 14 . the motor vehicle 10 has two front wheels 16 a and 16 b arranged proximate to its front side 12 . these are connected with each other by way of a front axle 24 . the motor vehicle also includes two rear wheels 16 c and 16 d . vertical actuators 18 a to 18 d , which are part of an abc ( active body control ) actuator system , are associated with each of the wheels 16 a to 16 d in one to one correspondence . the vertical actuators 18 a to 18 d are controlled by an abc control device 20 . in this way , the vertical lift of each individual wheel can be individually adjusted . for example , the vertical actuators 18 a can affect the vertical wheel position of wheel 16 a . the abc control device 20 is connected with a control device 22 which controls a semi   automatic vehicle guidance system . alternatively , the abc control device 20 and the control device 22 may also form part of a common control device . the motor vehicle 10 also includes a sensor 32 configured for measurement of the instantaneous transverse acceleration of the motor vehicle 10 . the sensor 32 is connected with the control device 22 and transmits to the control device 22 the measurement information about the transverse acceleration . the front wheels 16 a to 16 d can be steered via a steering system 26 , i . e . the steering angle b can be adjusted with the steering system 26 . in particular , the steering system 26 includes a steering wheel that can be operated by a driver 30 . in addition to manual steering , the motor vehicle 10 also includes a steering actuator 28 , with which the steering angle b of the wheels 16 a and 16 b can be automatically adjusted . to this end , the steering actuator 28 is connected with the control device 22 . in particular , the steering actuator 28 is constructed so that a superimposed steering angle δb can be superimposed on the steering angle b adjusted by the driver 30 with the steering system 26 , resulting in a steering angle b + δb . however , the steering wheel angle c of the steering wheel of the steering system 26 should continue to be the angle corresponding to the steering angle b . the driver 30 then does not receive a haptic feedback on the steering wheel relating to the superimposed steering angle δb . fig2 shows a schematic rear view of a motor vehicle with a conventional roll control . in the exemplary embodiment , the motor vehicle 10 travels through a left   hand turn . to enhance the driving comfort for the occupants of the motor vehicle 10 , the vertical actuators 18 a to 18 d are controlled such that the body of the motor vehicle 10 tilts into the left   hand turn . the tilt is accomplished by a rotation about the roll axis w , which extends parallel to a roadway 34 . when traveling in a straight line , no transverse forces act on the motor vehicle 10 , so that its body is oriented substantially parallel to a plane e 1 . in a left   hand turn , the body is actively tilted by the vertical actuators 18 a to 18 d by a roll angle a . the body is then substantially parallel to a plane e 2 which is no longer parallel to the roadway 34 . the plane e 2 then encloses the roll angle a with the plane e 1 . because the vehicle body now leans into the turn , the transverse acceleration experienced by the driver 30 is improved . fig3 shows three possible trajectories t 1 , t 2 and t 3 along which the motor vehicle moves , depending on which systems affecting the driving dynamics are activated . the motor vehicle travels along the trajectory t 1 when the steering angle b is set by the driver 30 . in this example , neither does the motor vehicle 10 actively lean into the turn ( see fig2 ), nor does the steering actuator 28 actively intervene in the steering . the situation illustrated in fig2 will now be described , where the motor vehicle 10 tilts actively into the left   hand turn shown in fig3 by the roll angle a . the motor vehicle 10 then no longer travels along the trajectory t 1 , although the steering angle b is set , but travels instead on the trajectory t 2 , which is tighter , i . e . has a smaller radius of curvature than the trajectory t 1 . active rolling produces a yaw moment towards the left into the turn . the active rolling increases the yaw angle of the motor vehicle 10 in relation to the yaw angle associated with the trajectory t 1 , although the steering angle b remains the same . this corresponds to the situation known in the art . in order to be nevertheless able to travel along the trajectory t 1 , the driver 30 must correctively intervene in the steering system 26 by moving the steering wheel further to the right , i . e . by reducing the steering angle b . the driving characteristics of the motor vehicle 10 then appear unfamiliar to the driver 30 . the driver 30 may be surprised that he must steer back to the right which may endanger the driving safety . the corrective steering intervention is therefore performed automatically . the situation is illustrated again in fig4 . the control device 22 computes a superimposed steering angle δb which is applied on the steering system 26 by way of the steering actuator 28 , thereby producing an effective steering angle b + δb . the steering wheel angle c remains unchanged and keeps the value corresponding to the steering angle b . the control device 22 uses several input variables to compute the superimposed steering angle δb . these are , in particular , the roll angle a , the steering angle b , and optionally the speed v of the motor vehicle 10 . the superimposed steering angle δb and the roll angle a are functionally correlated by way of a curve k . a roll angle a of 5 ° causes , for example , a superimposed steering angle δb of − 1 °. rolling to the left causes a superimposed steering angle δb to the right and vice versa . as a result , the actual trajectory t 3 traveled by the motor vehicle 10 runs on the right of the trajectory t 2 . the radius of curvature associated with t 3 is greater than the radius of curvature associated with t 2 . ideally , the superimposed steering angle δb is selected so that the trajectories t 1 and t 3 coincide . the driver 30 then experiences the familiar cornering performance of the motor vehicle 10 . correlating automatic rolling and automatic counter steering is particularly advantageous when the motor vehicle 10 is steered manually , or in the so   called chauffeur mode . the system composed of control device 22 and steering actuator 28 can also be referred to as superimposed steering system and may be constructed as an ads . the roll angle a is adjusted by acquiring with the control device 22 signals from the sensor 32 and determining with the control device 22 the transverse acceleration from these signals . depending on the respective value of the transverse acceleration , the control device 22 now determines a suitable transverse tilt with the roll angle a and a suitable superimposed steering angle δb . the transverse tilt is adjusted by transmitting signals from the control device 22 to the abc control device 20 , wherein the latter controls the corresponding lift of the individual vertical actuators 18 a to 18 d . the superimposed steering angle is adjusted by transmitting corresponding signals from the control device 32 to the steering actuator 28 which intervenes in the steering system 26 so as to define a particular steering angle for the wheels 16 a and 16 b . while the invention has been illustrated and described in connection with currently preferred embodiments shown and described in detail , it is not intended to be limited to the details shown since various modifications and structural changes may be made without departing in any way from the spirit and scope of the present invention . the embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the invention and practical application to thereby enable a person skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated .
