a christmas tree fire extinguishing system is provided , wherein an automatically initiated fire extinguishing agent is contained within a housing below the tree and a plurality of smoke and heat sensors communicate to a control unit . the control unit controls the trigger and interprets the sensor signals , while also sending signals to a communications system upon a fire event to notify the homeowner and / or the local fire authorities . in combination with the fire extinguishing agent , the system can monitor the tree and alert property authorities in the event of a fire to prevent home fires and major property damage . also provided is an audible fire alert for those in the home , wherein a sound generator is energized if smoke or fire is detected to warn those in the immediate vicinity .
reference is made herein to the attached drawings . like reference numerals are used throughout the drawings to depict like or similar elements of the christmas tree fire extinguishing and monitoring system . for the purposes of presenting a brief and clear description of the present invention , the preferred embodiment will be discussed as used for monitoring and preventing christmas tree fires and for alerting owners and authorities of a fire event . the figures are intended for representative purposes only and should not be considered to be limiting in any respect . referring now to fig1 , there is shown a view of the fire extinguishing system of the present invention in a working state , whereby the system monitors the condition of the christmas tree 50 and can activate a fire extinguishing agent 13 from within a housing 11 placed below the tree 50 . positioned within the tree 50 and along its trunk is a conduit 20 that routes a plurality of hoses 21 and a plurality of electrical connections through the tree 50 . the hoses are preferably a heat - resistant material that are adapted to carry a pressurized fire extinguishing agent from the agent canister 13 to the tree 50 for dispensing the same therein to combat an open fire . the fire extinguishing agent travels through the conduit 20 within a central line and into the individual hoses 21 disposed along the conduit 20 length . the fire extinguishing agent then exits the nozzles 22 of the hoses 21 to cover the tree 50 with the agent and smother any fire emanating therefrom . electrically connected to the housing 11 and extending from the conduit 20 is a plurality of fire sensors 23 and an audible warning means 24 . the fire sensors 23 comprise electrical smoke and / or heat sensors that communicate to a controller within the housing 11 and act to monitor the tree 50 for smoke and / or flames . when a fire condition is detected , the controller receives signals from the sensors 23 and thereafter activates a trigger 14 that releases the fire extinguishing agent 13 . the sensors 23 may be disposed along the upper portion of the tree 50 , along the length of the conduit 20 , and in any configuration that is best suited for monitoring the tree 50 as a whole and for detecting a fire or smoke event . the housing 11 includes the fire extinguishing agent and the electronics utilized to operate the present system . the housing may be electrically connected 12 to external power and to external communication lines for operation , or the system may be designed to operate wirelessly . using a wired connection 12 , the system may receive ac power from a household electrical outlet , and can further be connected to a communications system via a telephonic landline wire or to a voice over ip ( voip ) network via an ethernet connector . it is desired that the present system be designed to be either wired or wireless , and one that can achieve communication with the outside world via traditional landlines or a voip connection . referring now to fig2 , there is shown a cut - away view of the housing 11 and a schematic view of its internal components . the housing 11 is an enclosure adapted to be placed at the base of the christmas tree , wherein the housing 11 includes the pressurized fire extinguishing agent 13 and the electrical control unit 101 of the system that controls operation of the system and release of the fire extinguishing agent 13 . there may also be a manual release trigger 14 for manually releasing the agent in the event of an emergency . the control unit 101 receives signals from the fire / smoke sensors , processing their signals and coordinates the fire extinguishing activities and communication of the system when deployed . the control unit 101 receives power either from an ac power connection 102 or from onboard battery power 103 , wherein the battery 103 may be supplied as a backup to the ac connection 102 . upon activation of the fire extinguishing agent 13 , the pressurized agent is released through a hose 16 to the conduit and out through the nozzles . the control unit 101 receives signals from the sensors within the tree , wherefrom actions can be taken and the system can release the fire extinguishing agent 13 and notify the authorities of a trigger event . to trigger the canister of agent 13 , the control unit 101 operates a relay or solenoid that releases the pressurized agent . at the same time , the control unit 101 activates the audible alarm to warn occupants of the household and triggers a distress call to local authorities and the homeowner via phone message . the fire extinguishing agent may consist of one of the following agents : dry powder agent , foam agent , water , or carbon dioxide . the agent is released from the nozzles and into the tree interior for end a fire and ceasing its spread . referring now to fig3 , there is shown a schematic view of the system elements of the present fire monitoring and extinguishing system . the system comprises a controller unit 101 that receives and transmits signals to different system elements during operation . the controller unit 101 is an analog or digital circuit ( e . g . logic circuit , microprocessor , etc .) that is capable of interpreting signals from the heat and smoke sensors 23 and initiating the alarm 105 and fire extinguishing agent 14 if a fire starts in the tree . the controller unit 101 is preferably a digital circuit that includes a processing means , a memory , a storage means , and connections to the various system elements for operation of the same . the controller unit 101 exercises code based on the electrical inputs from the sensors 23 , whereby a signal can be sent to the audible alarm 105 and a solenoid or relay can trigger the fire extinguishing agent 14 . the audible alarm 105 preferably comprises a speaker and a sound generator that creates a high pitched alarm similar to that found in most household fire alarms . powering the system is preferably an ac power connection 102 and battery backup power 103 . referring now to fig4 and 5 , there are shown two embodiments of the communication means of the present invention , wherein a wireless communications system and a landline connection are provided . the control unit 101 of the present invention is supported within the housing of the system . in a wireless configuration , the housing further includes connection to or integration of a wireless antenna 110 that can wirelessly communicate to a network router 111 within the home . the router 111 connects to the local area network 112 , which connects to a larger network 113 ( e . g . the internet ). through this connection , connection to a voice over ip ( voip ) connection can be established between the control unit 101 and a voip service provider 114 . the service provider 114 can then establish a connection with 9 - 1 - 1 services or another recipient . in this way , a distress message can be sent to fire authorities and / or the homeowner if the system is triggered . fig5 represents a landline connection between the control unit 101 and the end recipient of the distress message . the control unit connects to a telephone modem 201 , which connects to a telephonic landline connection 202 for establishing an outgoing call to fire authorities or the homeowner . in either embodiment , the present invention contemplates a christmas tree fire monitoring and extinguishing system that not only stops the fire before it spreads , but also alerts others of the event . the alert includes both a local , audible alarm , and a communication means that establishes an alert for those not in the immediate area ( fire department , homeowner , etc .). the system includes smoke and fire sensors that are supported within the tree interior by way of a flexible , flame retardant hose having a plurality of nozzles spaced therealong for dispensing the fire extinguishing agent when the system is triggered . the device further includes a communication means ( e . g . a phone modem or network connection ) for calling the fire department , police , or owner in the case of a fire . if fire or smoke is detected , the alarm is activated , and the fire extinguishing agent is released through the nozzles to extinguish the fire . the device can then alert the authorities and owner of the fire . the present invention detects and responds to increased temperatures before a fire can spread , thereby reducing the safety hazards associated with putting lights on live pine trees . the conduit , extinguishing agent nozzles , and sensors of the present invention are supported within a christmas tree in order to both detect and extinguish fires . the system includes smoke and fire sensors that connect to the control unit via a flame retardant cord . an audible alarm creates a high - pitched sound or voice alerts when extreme heat or smoke is detected . the hose can be constructed of a clear , flexible material , and can come in three pieces so the user can adjust the length to better suit a particular tree . the device can further include a plurality of nozzles attached to the sensors at the end of the hose . each nozzle end and connector piece is made of brass , steel or another suitable material , and includes a screw - on cap to work properly with the pressure of the extinguisher . the fire extinguisher is 3 or 5 pounds and is supported within the housing at the base of the tree . it is submitted that the instant invention has been shown and described in what is considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments . it is recognized , however , that departures may be made within the scope of the invention and that obvious modifications will occur to a person skilled in the art . with respect to the above description then , it is to be realized that the optimum dimensional relationships for the parts of the invention , to include variations in size , materials , shape , form , function and manner of operation , assembly and use , are deemed readily apparent and obvious to one skilled in the art , and all equivalent relationships to those illustrated in the drawings and described in the specification are intended to be encompassed by the present invention . therefore , the foregoing is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention . further , since numerous modifications and changes will readily occur to those skilled in the art , it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation shown and described , and accordingly , all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to , falling within the scope of the invention .
