a method of applying a neural stimulus with an implanted electrode array involves applying a sequence of stimuli configured to yield a therapeutic effect while suppressing psychophysical side effects . the stimuli sequence is configured such that a first stimulus recruits a portion of the fibre population , and a second stimulus is delivered within the refractory period following the first stimulus and the second stimulus being configured to recruit a further portion of the fibre population . using an electrode array and suitable relative timing of the stimuli , ascending or descending volleys of evoked responses can be selectively synchronised or desynchronised to give directional control over responses evoked .
fig1 illustrates an implantable device 100 suitable for implementing the present invention . device 100 comprises an implanted control unit 110 , which controls application of a sequence of neural stimuli in accordance with the present invention . in this embodiment the unit 110 is also configured to control a measurement process for obtaining a measurement of a neural response evoked by a single stimulus delivered by one or more of the electrodes 122 . device 100 further comprises an electrode array 120 consisting of a three by eight array of electrodes 122 , each of which may be selectively used as either the stimulus electrode or sense electrode , or both . the activation and simultaneous suppression of different areas of tissue is highly desired for treatment of a number of neurological disorders . the activation of micturition or defection without contraction of the sphincter is highly desirable for treatment of incontinence . the goal of stimulation of the spinal cord is to block transmission of pain signals from aδ and c fibres , via the inhibitory effect of the activation of aβ fibres . the ascending aβ fibres produce a psycho - physiological response which results in the paraesthesia ( described as tingling by recipients ). a number of ways to reduce or eliminate this effect have been suggested . it has been reported that burst mode stimulation or continuous stimulation at high frequencies can produce pain relief without accompanying paraesthesia , however the mechanisms are not clear . one possible explanation is that the high frequency stimulation results in a highly uncorrelated neural firing pattern in the ascending aβ tracts . high frequency stimulation results in the continuous activation of the fibres and produces a randomised firing pattern . the recovery time ( refractory period ) between each fibre is slightly different and if a depolarisation potential is present as the fibre comes out of refractory period , it will depolarise again , but not synchronised with other fibres which may still be in their refractory periods . the net result is a randomisation of the firing pattern and a return of the stochastic response in the fibre . measurements of the evoked neural response provide a direct measure of the degree of correlation of the firing pattern . fig2 a shows the aβ response amplitude growth functions with respect to stimulus amplitude , for stimulation of the sheep spinal cord at 40 , 80 and 120 μs . the recruitment is related to charge and so stimulation at 1 ma for 120 μs produces an equivalent charge for stimulation at 3 ma for 40 μs , with vertical lines highlighting two respective points of equal charge delivery for each trace . fig2 b shows the compound action potential recorded at equivalent charges for the three different pulse widths . the peak height is smaller and the evoked response peak is wider at the equivalent charge for the longer pulse width than for the shorter pulse width , and this is indicative of a less correlated evoked response . the probability of any single fibre responding is a function of the properties and history of the fibre and the amplitude of the current pulse . although short and long pulses for an equivalent charge may recruit the same number of fibres the longer lower current amplitude pulse will recruit the fibres over a longer time scale than the higher current shorter pulse width . patients report a preference for stimulation with longer pulse widths and the reason for this preference may be because the perceptual side effect is lower , because there is a lower correlation between the fibres firing . given this observation , highly uncorrelated responses may give rise to much lower psycho - physical side effects such as tingling sensations and paraesthesia . the evoked responses measured for the longer pulse widths are broader in fig2 b , indicating less correlation in the firing pattern . measurement of the evoked response provides a unique way to assess the degree of correlation amongst fibres in a group , as the peak width and amplitude of the measured response directly relates to the degree of timing synchronisation of the single fibre action potentials which sum to form the compound action potential . the goal of stimulus design is to achieve a high level of recruitment at the segmental level and a low level of correlation for the ascending segments . the neural response measurement obtained at each sense electrode may be conducted in accordance with the techniques set out in daly ( 2007 / 0225767 ), the content of which is incorporated herein by reference . additionally or alternatively , the neural response measurement may be conducted in accordance with the techniques set out in nygard ( u . s . pat . no . 5 , 785 , 651 ), the content of which is incorporated herein by reference . additionally or alliteratively , the neural response measurement may be conducted in accordance with the techniques set out in the australian provisional patent application filed simultaneously herewith in the name of national ict australia ltd entitled “ method and apparatus for measurement of neural response ”. the degree of correlation within an evoked response can be measured with such techniques , and pulse sequences can be designed to produce evoked responses of a desired character . a typical recruitment curve is shown in fig2 a . the strength of the aβ potentials directly relates to the number of fibres recruited , and therefore stimulation at successive larger and larger pulse amplitudes will recruit successively more fibres . if the pulses are timed so that they occur within the refractory period of the excited neurons from the previous pulse then different sub populations of neurons can be selected with each pulse . the timing of each pulse can be so arranged so that the travelling caps from each individual pulse cancel each other as they sum at some distance from the stimulation site . this indicates the degree of desynchronisation between the fibres , and as the sensory input is based on correlation of firing patterns the sensation ( paraesthesia ) is reduced . however , the activation of the inhibitory effect of the aβ fibres at the segmental level is not reduced , permitting aβ inhibition of ai and c propagation to occur , as desired . fig3 illustrates the principle of applying a sequence of neural stimuli and allowing the respective evoked responses 302 , 304 , 306 to propagate along the fibre . the numerical summation of five such partially overlapping compound action potentials , of which only three appear in fig3 , is shown at 308 . fig3 shows the effect of the summation of the evoked response from five pulses with the timing intervals between the pulses so arranged as result in the arrival of the evoked response waveform at a designated point along the electrode array such that the averaged signal recorded at that point is minimised . for the data shown in fig3 the timing difference between each cathodic pulse is 0 . 3 ms . fig4 is a schematic illustration of a potential pulse sequence ( lower ) and the amplitude growth curve associated with the sequence ( upper ). current levels a - c are represented on both portions of fig4 . the initial pulse of amplitude a can be expected to recruit only a portion of the available population . application of the subsequent stimulus of greater amplitude can then be expected to recruit a further portion , but not all , of the available neural population , even though stimulus b is applied during the refractory period after stimulus a . similarly , stimulus c can be expected to recruit a further portion of the available neural population . c may be applied during the refractory period of stimulus b only , or possibly within the refractory period of both stimuli a and b . the sequence of neural stimuli a - b - c can thus be expected to recruit perhaps a similar amount of the available neural population as would stimulus c if applied alone , however the progressive recruitment of portions of the neural population at progressive times provides for a significantly decorrelated evoked response as compared to the response resulting from a single stimulus of amplitude c . the concept of a selection of stimulus sequences based on the ert recorded parameters can be greatly extended . for instance the example of fig4 demonstrates achieving an uncorrelated ensemble response in the fibre population being stimulated . fig5 illustrates ert responses to bursts of stimulation with differing frequencies . the degree of correlation can be inferred from the ert signal . a normal stimulus can be used to assess the stimulation response amplitude in the absence of any further desynchronising pulses . the amplitude of the single probe pulse is adjusted to represent the total charge delivered over time for the corresponding desynchronising pulse train . the amplitude of the response measured from the single probe pulse represents a fully synchronised response . the desynchronising pulse train is then output and the response measured . the ratio of the two responses is proportional to the level of synchronisation and so can be used as a control parameter for adjusting the characteristics of the device . for instance the control parameter may be adjustable by the patient to allow the patient to adjust the level of perceived paraesthesia . the control variable may also be used by the system for detection of a change of state in the neural tissue for a diagnostic purpose . a single non - decorrelating stimulus can be applied to the nerve by the device periodically or occasionally in order to elicit an evoked response which is then used as the input to the control loop . this probe stimulus can be adjusted so that its charge is equivalent to the charge presented by the desynchronising stimuli . the frequency of the probe pulse to desynchronising pulses can then be adjusted to minimise the perceptual side effects . the probe frequency can also be adjusted on demand , responding more rapidly to changes in movement , for example . conduction of the compound action potentials occurs both orthodromically ( up the spine ) and antidromically ( down the spine ). careful choice of stimulus design can be used to create a situation where the degree of synchronisation can be different in both directions , and controllably so . for example it may be desirable to generate stimuli which result in synchronising aβ activation in the antidromic direction and a desynchronising activity in the orthodromic direction . one possible scheme for doing this is illustrated in fig6 . a stimulus pulse , preferably biphasic , is discharged at an electrode ( electrode ‘ 0 ’ indicated on the left side of fig6 ). at some time interval later a 2 nd stimulus pulse is discharged between another two electrodes . for convenience this is illustrated in fig6 as the electrode ( number “ 1 ”) adjacent to the first electrode . the 2 nd discharge is arranged so that it occurs in time and place such that its resultant cap propagation to an electrode ( e . g . ‘+ 6 ’) in one direction ( the upward direction in fig6 ) sums with each other evoked cap . in contrast , in the other direction ( the downward direction in fig6 ), the respective caps are misaligned and decorrelated for example when observed at electrode ‘− 3 ’. a possible means but not the only means to achieve such directional selectivity of cap correlation is to arrange a series of stimulus pulses with an interpulse interval equal to the difference in propagation time required for desynchronisation of the cap in the ascending direction . note that the order in which the stimuli are presented does not need to be sequential . the amplitudes of the individual stimuli can also be varied according to the scheme of fig4 . the timing of presentation can also be dithered to adjust the timing . fig7 illustrates experimental results obtained by applying a series of four stimuli of ascending amplitude on four adjacent electrodes to a sheep spinal cord . each stimulus was a tripolar stimulus for which the respective centre electrode was , in order , electrode e 7 , e 8 , e 9 and e 10 , being the four centrally positioned electrodes of a 16 electrode linear electrode array . each stimulus was biphasic with each phase having a pulse width of 20 μs , and the interphase gap being 10 μs . the stimuli were of ascending amplitude , being 2 ma , 2 . 5 ma , 3 ma and 3 . 5 ma respectively . the inter - stimulus interval between each successive pair of stimuli on the respective electrodes was 33 μs , so that the pulse - to - pulse time was 83 μs , to optimally correlate the net evoked response in the antidromic ( ie caudal ) direction . as can be seen in fig7 the antidromic response 704 measured on electrode e 16 was well correlated from the four constituent parts , and is of large amplitude . in contrast , the four orthodromic responses were effectively decorrelated and produced a net response 702 measured at electrode e 3 which was of much reduced amplitude compared to response 704 travelling in the opposite direction , even though both were produced by the same burst of four stimuli . fig8 shows the responses measured at different inter - stimulus intervals . as can be seen the inter - stimulus interval strongly affects efficacy of this technique , and so preferred embodiments provide a feedback loop in order to optimize this parameter , and all other stimulus parameters , in setting up the stimuli burst . fig9 illustrates a suitable feedback controller for controlling the parameters of the stimuli burst in an automated manner , so as to use the measured evoked responses in each direction to determine the stimulus parameters required to achieve a desired directional effect . such automated feedback permits the relatively large parameter space to be efficiently explored to identify optimal stimuli burst parameters . it will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and / or modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly described . the present embodiments are , therefore , to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive .
