in a tubular filter bodies with at least one tubular filter structure with a porous wall , through which a liquid passes substantially radially , particles above a given size being held back at the entrance surface , made of porous plastic , ceramic material , metal , graphite , etc , continuous operation at constant pressures is made possible by providing at least one groove which is closed toward the outside and forms a forced flow path leading from an inlet to an outlet in the circumferential entrance surface of the tubular filter body .
the filter arrangement 10 of fig1 comprises a pressure housing 1 which includes a tubular part 2 and covers 3 and 4 , which are attached at the ends in a pressure tight manner . the tubular part 2 has an internal shoulder 5 , against which a partition 6 filling out the cross section of the tubular housing part 2 rests in the axial direction , via a ring seal 7 . the partition 6 has cutouts , in which tubes 8 are arranged parallel to the axis of the tube in a pressure tight manner . two tubes 8 are shown in fig1 . the tubes 8 are arranged in the cross section of the housing 1 in such a manner that as many tubes as possible can be accommodated . in the tubes 8 , filter bodies 9 , the outside circumference of which rests on the inside circumference 26 of the tubes 8 , are arranged . their outer circumferential surface is the circumferential entrance surface . the filter bodies 9 themselves are tubular and are closed off by plugs 11 at their ends facing the cover 3 . at their outer circumference , the filter bodies 9 have a helical groove 12 , which forms a helical canal for the liquid between the filter body 9 and the inner circumference of the tube 8 . the liquid can enter the canal at the inlet 13 located at the left in fig1 and can leave it again at the outlet 14 located at the right in fig1 . the flanks of the groove 12 form the entrance surface 25 . at the right end , the filter body 9 protrudes beyond the end of the tube 8 and is sealed in a corresponding recess 15 of the right - hand cover 4 via a circular seal 16 , which is pressed into the recess 15 by a pressure ring 17 . the partition 6 divides the interior of the pressure housing 1 into a first chamber 18 which according to fig1 is situated to the left and into which the inlet 19 of the pressure housing leads . the chamber 20 situated to the right in fig1 is in communication with the concentrate outlet 21 of the pressure housing 1 . the interior 23 of the tubular filter bodies 9 are in communication with the outside via outlets 22 in the cover 4 . practically the same pressure prevails in the chamber 20 as in the chamber 18 and in the groove 12 . as this pressure acts on the inside surface 26 of the tubes 8 as well as on the free outer circumferential surface 28 , the tubes 28 are substantially pressure relieved and can be made accordingly light . the filter arrangement 10 operates as follows : the liquid to be filtered enters the chamber 18 through the inlet 19 of the pressure housing 1 . from there , the liquid to be filtered passes through the inlet 13 into the helical groove 12 , moves helically in this groove along the filter body 9 and enters into the chamber 20 at the outlet 14 from the groove . from chamber 20 it is discharged as concentrate from the outlet 21 of the pressure housing 1 . the pressure prevailing in the chambers 18 and 20 can be controlled by the pressure control valve 24 . while dwelling in the helical groove 12 , part of the liquid to be filtered enters into the interior of the filter body 9 and leaves behind suspended and / or dissolved particles at the entrance surface 25 formed by the outer circumference of the filter body 9 , which , however , do not settle down but are carried away immediately by the liquid flowing past surface 25 , i . e ., the particles remain in the moving concentrate . after traversing the wall of the filter body 9 , the filtrate gets into the interior 23 of the filter body and can be drawn off at the outlets 22 . the concentrate is returned to the inlet 19 and kept in circulation , if desired , after separation of matter that was taken along , and after combination with fresh liquid to be filtered . in this manner , the filtrate is separated continuously , e . g ., as water purified from waste water . the embodiment of fig3 and 4 differs from that of fig1 and 2 only with respect to the design of the filter bodies 9 which have , on their outside , axial slots 32 of , in the illustrated embodiment , approximately triangular cross section . the slots 32 are distributed over the circumference of bodies 9 . instead of the axial slots 32 , slots can also be provided which have a slight pitch , which can improve the contact of the liquid to be filtered with the entrance surface 25 &# 39 ; of the filter body 9 &# 39 ;. otherwise , the design and operation of the embodiment according to fig3 and 4 corresponds to that according to fig1 and 2 . the triangular cross section of the grooves in the illustrated embodiment is not mandatory . rounded or more rectangular groove cross section can also be considered . likewise , the specific development of the filter material and filter body does not matter . this can be a porous filter body which separates particles contained in the liquid to be filtered by means of its pores , but may also be a filter body , having a coherent layer precipitated at its entrance surface on a porous body serving as a carrier , which is a filter diaphragm and constitutes the filter layer proper . such diaphragms can be used for separating particles down to molecules dissolved in the liquid to be filtered . one important application of the filter arrangement is the purification of textile treatment waste waters by removal of chemicals such as concentrations and the like , which have considerable molecule size . the filter bodies in such cases consist of graphite or sintered tubes of corrosion resistant steel . they have a diameter of 15 to 25 mm , and are combined in numbers in the order of 30 ( the drawing is only schematic in this respect and does not represent the actual conditions ) in a common pressure housing to form a so - called module .
