a motor vehicle support group for mounting an instrument and control device carrier assembly , accessory elements , and an electric interconnection group for the instruments , control devices and accessory elements , in the passenger compartment of the motor vehicle , the support group comprising a first support part and a second support part adapted to be adjustably secured together , the first support part being mounted on the steering column of the motor vehicle and the second support part being mounted on the dashboard of the vehicle , the support parts and the components mounted thereon being adapted to be preassembled so that the assembly may be tested prior to installation in the motor vehicle .
referring now to fig1 referance numeral 1 indicates the said support group according to the present invention , comprising two main support parts 2 and 3 which are attached to one another by means of screws 4 in a way which will described later . support part 2 comprises a substantially cylindrical tube provided at its front end with an annular rim 5 having an axial bore 6 . extending upwardly from the front end of part 2 is a substantially rectangular projection 7 to which there is fixed , by means of screws 8 , a support arm 10 ( partially shown by dashed lines ) which is provided at its ends with two support projections 11 to which there are fixed , respectively , two electric control blocks 12 for mounting positions for various elements , such as direction indicators , lights , emergency signalling device , thermal rear window , etc . projecting from the lower region of the cylindrical support part 2 is a hollow cylindrical part 14 whose axis is orthogonal to the support part 2 and in which there may be accomodated an ignition key switch of known type ( not shown ) and a steering lock device ( of known type ) which controls the engagement and disengagement of a latch 15 with a steering wheel hub 16 . projecting from the rear end of the cylindrical support part 2 are two side projections 18 which are bent orthogonally toward the outside and in the ends of which there are formed two longitudinal slots 19 in which there are accomodated , with a possibility of adjustment , the two screws 4 which serve to fix to the two projections 18 to the respective vertical projections 20 of the support part 3 . support part 2 is made in one piece , conveniently by pressure die - casting , and comprises the cylindrical central part , the front base 5 , the projections 7 and 18 and the lower cylindrical part 14 . support part 3 , instead of being die cast , is conveniently made of a shaped sheet plate having a substantially rectangular planar central portion 22 which is bent upwardly at its front end so as to define a horizontal portion 23 at a level higher than the central portion 22 , and from the front end of which two projections 20 extend downwardly . at its rear end the central portion 22 is bent upwards , thus forming a wall 24 which and a rearwardly projecting vertical part 25 to there is fixed , for example by welding , the front region of a support part 26 , made of plate , which at its rear edge is bent upwards and is provided with two projections 27 for the attachment , by known means ( not shown ), of an instrument and control device carrier assembly ( shown by a chain line ). originating from the rear region of the plane central portion 22 and the wall 24 are a vertical wall 31 and a plane wall 32 , and this latter , in combination with the plane portion 23 , defines a bearing horizontal for a board 33 of an electric interconnection group for the control devices , instruments and accessory elements of the vehicle . the said board 33 , which is fixed to the wall 32 and to the portion 23 by means of screws 35 , carries ( in a known manner not shown ) a printed circuit , a plurality of fuse carrier elements with their respective fuses , and a plurality of connectors for the electric connection of the various control devices , instruments and accessory elements , in particular the instrument and control device carrier assembly 28 , to the electric control blocks 12 and to the ignition switch housed within on part 14 . the assembling of the support group 1 constructed according to the present invention is carried out as follows . to the support part 2 are connected by means of screws 8 the arms 19 which carry the electric control blocks 12 , and in the cylindrical part 14 there is accomodated the ignition switch with the steering lock device , while to the support part 3 are connected the instrument and control device carrier assembly 28 ( by means of the support part 26 ) and the board 33 ( by means of the screws 35 ). the two support parts 2 and 3 are then connected to one another by means of the screws 4 , and to the board 33 are connected the various electric connectors ( not shown ). in this way , the said support group comprising the parts 2 and 3 and the instrument and control device assembly 28 , board 33 , electric control blocks 12 and the ignition switch , may be easily subjected to prelimnary testing before being mounted in the vehicle . for the actual mounting of the support group in the vehicle , cylindrical support part 2 is fitted around a tube 40 forming a part of a steering column 41 of the vehicle , until the front end of the said tube 40 comes to rest on the inner surface of the annular rim 5 of the part 2 . the steering column 41 projects outwardly from the axial bore 6 and on its front end is mounted , in a known manner , the steering wheel hub 16 . the position of the support part 3 is then adjusted relative to the part 2 by means of the screws 4 which are housed in the slots 19 , in such a manner that the central planar portion 22 of the support part 3 will rest on a central portion 42 of a body bracket 43 , which has two shaped side portions of u - shaped cross - section ( one of which is shown in fig1 ) and is fixed in its rear region to a transversely disposed wall 44 of a body crosspiece 45 corresponding to the dashboard of the vehicle . connected to the central portion 42 of the body bracket 43 is a wall 65 whose end is fixed in the upper region of the body crosspiece 45 . the said central planar portion 22 of the support prt 3 is then secured the central portion 42 of the body bracket 43 by means of three bolts 46 . the support group shown in fig2 differs from that shown in fig1 by a different embodiment of the support part 2 which is indicated in fig2 by reference numeral 50 . instead of having a cylindrical central portion , the central portion is semicylindrical in shape , and has two longitudinal walls 51 and 52 which are substantially rectangular in shape and project outwardly in opposite directions . extending perpendicularly from front end of the wall 51 is a substantially rectangular projection 53 , to which there is fixed , by means of screws 54 , the support arm 10 supporting the electric control blocks 12 , while from the rear end of the wall 51 there extends perpendicularly a projection 55 , substantially rectangular in shape , to which there are fixed , by means of screws 56 , the vertical projections 20 of the support part 3 . in this embodiment , for the adjustment of the position of the support part 3 relative to the support part 2 , instead of the longitudinal slots 19 on the projections 18 of the support part 2 there are provided longitudinal slots 58 on the projections 20 of the support part 3 . the support part 50 is made by pressure die - casting and comprises , integrally therewith , the walls 51 and 52 , the projections 53 and 55 . the casting also may include an integral cylindrical portion 60 which is disposed perpendicularly to the axis of the support part 50 and accomodates a key type ignition switch and the steering lock device ( which are known ), which steering lock device acts onto the steering column , instead of acting onto the steering wheel hub , as shown in fig1 . the assembly of the support part 50 onto the tube 40 of the steering column 41 is carried out by means of a semicircular bracket 61 which has the same diameter as the tube 40 and the support part 50 and whose ends are fixed , by means of screws 62 , to the longitudinal walls 51 and 52 . the adjustment of the position of support part 50 and its fixing attachment to the body bracket 43 are carried out previously described with reference to fig1 . with the support group according to the present invention there is thus obtained the advantage of having an assembly of various components supported on each of the parts 2 and 3 and with the possibility of adjustment of the relative positions of the two parts . the components are easily assembled both on the various support parts and on the steering column of the vehicle . the said common support group for these various components facilitates their preliminary testing before their assembly in the vehicle , inasmuch as the support group forms an assembly including the various electric connection elements . in addition , the manufacture of the said support group is relatively simple and therefore economical . finally , it is clear that many modifications and variations may be made to the described embodiments of the present invention , without departing from the scope of the invention itself . for example , the support parts 2 and 3 may have different shapes ; the electric interconnection board 33 may be of a different type ; etc .
