a multi - layer composite gun barrel has an integral metal alloy jacket portion , forming the exterior cylinder of the entire barrel , with a forebarrel interior liner cylinder substantially bonded within the jacket portion , and an unbonded breech portion liner , made from a high melting temperature refractory metal alloy able to resist erosion by hot gun gases in the barrel breech area .
referring initially to fig1 and 2 , a gun barrel 10 is formed with a breech portion 10a on the opposite end from a muzzle , or fore , portion 10b . the breech portion operates with a chamber member 11 , holding a shell 12 in firing position within the breech , and maintained in position by suitable means , such as ring member 14 and the like . in accordance with the invention , barrel 10 is comprised of an outer , or external , jacket portion 16 , extending the full length l of the barrel ( forward of chamber member 11 ), and thus having a barrel breech portion 16a , of maximum diameter d m , tapering at least through a barrel midportion 16b , to a barrel foreportion 16c , of minimum diameter d m ; the barrel portions 16a and 16c may also be tapered . the barrel jacket portion surrounds a liner layer 18 , metallurgically bonded to the jacket interior surface 16d . the jacket / liner portions are formed from a tubular coextrusion cylinder of concentric material layers carefully selected to include compatible materials , such as nickel , iron and cobalt base superalloys . the liner portion 18 is replaced , along a length l b of the barrel breech portion , with a borelining cylinder 20 ( preferably , length l b is less than one - fourth of the barrel length l ); a small expansion portion 22 ( of perhaps 50 milli - inches length or less ) may be provided between a foreportion 20a of the boreliner and the forelayer 18 rear portion 18a , for accommodation of liner portion 20 expansion . the unbonded boreliner portion 20 also has a breech portion 20b serving to retain the &# 34 ; floating &# 34 ; boreliner sleeve within the jacket breech bore 16e . the boreliner portion 20 can be fabricated of a more expensive high density refractory metal alloy which can withstand the very high breech temperature . the boreliner portion 20 would normally have an average thickness t1 greater than the average thickness t2 of the forebarrel liner portion . referring now to fig3 a - 3d , the barrel 10 is fabricated from a co - extruded barrel tube 24 ( e . g . a co - extruded tube obtained from inco alloys international , inc ., huntington , w . va . 25720 ) with an inco in - 909 iron - based alloy jacket 16 surrounding and metallurgically joined to an inco in - 718 nickel - based alloy liner 18 , with both the inside and outside of the tube being formed within one coextrusion die , to provide a high degree of concentricity of the interface diameter d i to both the liner bore surface 18c and the od of the jacket portion 16 . the co - extruded barrel cylinder may also be formed of other alloy combinations , including : liner layer 18 of one of the aforementioned in - 718 , or one of crmov steel , pyromet 31 or stellite 21 alloys , and the like ; and jacket layer 16 of the aforementioned in - 909 , or one of in - 908 or haynes 242 alloys , and the like , in combinations as selected for providing the desired concentric , bonded layers for achieving a particular end barrel result . the in - 718 liner alloy has sufficiently high chromium content to offer good erosion resistance to hot gun gasses . the in - 909 jacket was selected for its low thermal expansion and good elevated temperature strength . this particular combination of materials was also selected , in part , because of the relatively good compatibility of these two alloys regarding deformation at elevated temperature , facilitating coextrusion , and heat treatment . the raw cylinder outer surface is ( as shown in fig3 b ) now machined to form the breech portion 16a , the midportion 16b , and the desired muzzle portion 16c . a boreliner portion 16e is bored to a depth of slightly more than length l b and with an average diameter of about ( d r + 2t1 ) and the larger - diameter breech end portion 16f is then machined into the sleeve breech portion 16a . the breech boreliner portion 20 was separately formed ( of an alloy material such as ta - 10w , fs - 85 , fs - 752 , wc - 3009 and the like ) and finished , and is now shrunk - fit into the expanded bore portion 16e ( fig3 c ). thereafter , the undersized bore is machined ( fig3 d ) to add any desired rifling lands and grooves 28 and to bring the diameter up to the required caliber . then the bore of the forebarrel liner portion 18 can be plated , as desired , with a chromium or carbo - nitride film , to add corrosion resistance . while presently preferred embodiments of our novel multilayer composite gun barrel are described herein , many variations and modifications will now become apparent to those skilled in the art . it is our intent , therefore , to be limited only by the scope of the appending claims , and not by the specific details and instrumentalities included herein by way of explanation .
