process and apparatus for injection molding of molded parts made from plastic material having at least one cavity , which includes : a ) injection of plastic melt from an injection unit along a melt flow path into the cavity of an injection - molding die ; b ) injection of a fluid into the still molten plastic material , so that the latter is pressed against the walls of the cavity ; c ) allowing the plastic material to solidify until the latter forms the molded part in self - supporting manner ; and d ) releasing the molded part from the cavity of the injection - molding die .
an injection - molding device , which has an injection unit 3 which produces plastic melt in conventional manner and injects it into an injection - molding die 6 , can be seen in fig1 . the die 6 has a cavity 5 with a cavity wall 7 . the plastic melt is thus injected from the injection unit 3 into the die 6 along a melt flow path 4 through a machine nozzle . the molded part 2 to be produced thus has a cavity 1 , which firstly makes the part lighter and requires less use of material , which secondly makes it possible that during cooling of the melt , the latter is pressed against the cavity wall 7 in the cavity 5 . the molded parts 2 produced therefore have a particularly good surface quality . provision can be made in that during injection of the melt into the cavity 5 and / or during addition of the fluid , some of the melt flows over into an overflow cavity 8 . overflow can be controlled or regulated by valve means 9 . injection of the fluid takes place predominantly via the injection nozzle 10 . as can be seen , the fluid therefore expands along the melt flow path 4 in the direction of the cavity 5 . a liquid having high thermal capacity is used according to a particular embodiment of the invention as fluid . this leads to a very short cycle time , since the liquid can absorb much heat from the plastic melt . it therefore solidifies in a short time , which is why the releasing process — compared with known processes — can start earlier . the cavity 5 is completely or partly , for example 80 %, filled before injection of the liquid . the liquid , which can include water , is then injected . after injecting the liquid , the blocking means 16 are closed , controlled valves , followers or similar can be used here , so that neither melt nor liquid can escape from the cavity . the predominantly cold liquid withdraws heat from the plastic melt and thus accelerates the solidification process . provision is thus made in that the liquid absorbs so much heat that it , in a particular embodiment , transfers completely from the liquid to the gaseous state . the increase in volume thus produced ( from liquid to gas ) has an additional positive effect , since the internal pressure of the molded part is increased and thus the plastic is pressed even more strongly against the cavity wall . by tempering the liquid , namely by cooling to a value between about 4 ° c . and 15 ° c ., it is possible to ensure that very rapid curing of the plastic melt takes place , wherein it is sufficient to cool the plastic material such that it is self - supporting . it can be seen in fig1 that the addition of the liquid along the melt flow path 4 takes place in the region of the sprue 11 . the detailed design of the region of the injection - molding die is shown in fig2 and 3 . as can be seen in fig2 melt s is injected into the cavity 5 in the sprue region 11 . for example , water is added via the injection nozzle 10 for liquid . the displaced melt flows , as has already been mentioned above , at the flow path end from the main cavity 5 into the side cavity 8 , wherein overflow is regulated by means of valve means 9 . after at least partly completed curing , the interior of the molded part must be relieved of pressure again and residual liquid optionally remaining , which fills the cavity 1 , must be removed again from the latter , this can take place , for example via the blow - off nozzle 13 . in order to remove residual liquid which is present from the cavity 1 , the blocking means 16 are opened again and compressed air is introduced into the injection nozzle for liquid 10 . as can be seen from fig2 the cavity 1 extends via the cavity 5 into the side cavity , which has been effected by the addition of liquid into the melt . a blow - off nozzle 13 is positioned in the region of the overflow cavity 8 , namely at the blow - off point 12 for liquid . remaining liquid can be blown off from the cavity 1 by the injection of compressed air through the nozzle 10 . it is driven out through the blow - off nozzle 13 . a vacuum can thus be applied to the blow - off nozzle 13 — in supporting manner . the blow - off nozzle 13 can also be arranged at the end of the main cavity 5 . fig3 shows a further process of the invention . the cavity completely filled with melt is exposed to liquid via the injection nozzle for liquid 10 , which is arranged at the end of the cavity . the melt thus displaced is pressed back via the melt flow path 4 counter to its flow direction and indeed so far that the gas addition point 15 can project into the cavity 1 formed . all openings are then closed , so that neither melt nor liquid can be supplied or discharged . as already described above , heat transfer from the melt to the liquid now takes place until the latter has at least partly changed the state of aggregation . relieving of pressure then takes place via nozzles 10 or 13 . in order to remove residual liquid possibly remaining from the cavity 1 , the latter is exposed to compressed gas in order to remove the liquid from the cavity via the blow - off point for liquid 13 . provision is thus made to use a nozzle as described in fig4 . however , the process can also be used without pressing back the melt , care should be taken here only to ensure that the gas addition point 15 is positioned so that it can project into the cavity 1 as described above , since the latter will be considerably smaller during pure volume compensation . it can be seen in fig4 that in terms of device technology , a particularly advantageous embodiment is produced when an injection element 14 is used , through which , if required , liquid ( water ) w or compressed air ( gas ) g can be injected . in fig4 the injection nozzle 10 for liquid and gas indeed extends into the region of the melt flow path 4 from the injection unit 3 into the die cavity . however , it is equally possible to arrange the combined injection element 14 for liquid and gas , so that it injects liquid or gas directly into the cavity of the die via the appropriate nozzle . the process described above can also advantageously be used for otherwise conventional injection - molding processes . for example , it can also be used well if the molded part is injection - molded from more than one plastic component ( 2 - c process ). furthermore , it is possible , for example to inject the liquid into the die at two points , hence to produce two media bubbles and arrange for them to melt with one another by appropriate pressure control . furthermore , the addition of liquid can also take place in the spreader , as a result of which several part cavities can be supplied with liquid . the apparatus and method of injection can be implemented herein as disclosed in u . s . application ser . no . 10 / 106 , 884 , ( attorney &# 39 ; s docket no . 1959 . 2016 - 000 ), filed on mar . 22 , 2002 , the entire teachings of which are incorporated herein in their entirety . while this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to preferred embodiments thereof , it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details can be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims .
