One such element in the LMW description of the Zoo World has to do with the \occupancy restriction"|there can be at most one large animal in each position.
Actions in the world may include movement within and between cages, opening and closing gates, feeding the animals, one animal killing and eating another, riding animals, etc. area consists of a large number of positions.
Specically, we assume that the lengths of all road segments and the safety distance varsigma are expressed by integers, the top speeds of all cars and the speed limits on all road segments are expressed by integers, in the scenarios under consideration, the times when cars leave and reach endpoints of road segments, and the times at which the distance between two cars traveling on the same segment in the same direction becomes varsigma are expressed by integers.
The spacecraft Integer is actually close to the rened version of the Tra-c World mentioned in Section 2.2 above, in the sense that its velocity changes continuously, and its acceleration is piecewise constant.
For instance, the dynamic law caused ds after ds says that if (i) car c is going to remain on the same road segment during the next time interval, (ii) the distance travelled by c along that segment so far is ds, and (iii) the speed of c during that time interval is going to be equal to sp, then by the end of the time interval the distance travelled by c along the current road segment will become ds 5.3 Formalization Our formalization of the Tra-c World is shown below and is available online 6 .
As with the Zoo World, the annotation (lmw) found in many comments below refers to the Logic Modelling Workshop description of the Tra-c World quoted in Section 2.2. %%% TRAFFIC %%%http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/tag/ccalc/traffic/ . segment; car. :- variables Nd :: node; objects 0.maxInt :: integer.
The position is indicated as a pair consisting of the segment where the car % is located, and the distance travelled along the segment constants Each segment has exactly one start node and exactly one end node (lmw) startNode(segment) :: node; Each segment has a length, which is a real number (or rational preferred).
The relation between modifiedSegment and segment is similar caused modifiedSegment(C)=Sg if nextSegment(C)=none segment(C)=Sg. caused modifiedSegment(C)=Sg if nextSegment(C)=Sg. constants Maximum speed allowed by the top speed of a car and the speed % limit of the segment on which the car will be travelling caused if topSpeed(C)=Sp & nextSegment(C)=none (As in 6 of Section 3, the argument of speedLimit is supposed to be an object, not a constant.
