For example, the NASA Earth Observing System (EOS), a data collector for a number of satellites, holds 1450 data sets that are stored, managed, and distributed by the dierent EOS Data and Information System (EOSDIS) sites that are geographically located all over the USA.
In astronomy, the size of telescope image archives have already reached the terabyte range and they continue to increase very fast as information is collected for new all-sky surveyors such as the GSC-II (McLean, Hawkins, Spagna, Lattanzi, Lasker, Jenkner and White, 1998) and the Sloan Digital Survey (Szalay, 1998).
Spiegelhalter and Lauritzen (1990) and Buntine (1991) discuss parameter learning of a BN from complete data, whereas Binder, Koller, Russel and Kanazawa (1997) and Thiesson (1995) discuss parameter learning from incomplete data using gradient method.
Buntine (1991), Friedman and Goldszmidt (1997), and Lam and Bacchus (1994) discuss how to sequentially update the structure of a BN based on additional data.
In the following, we briey review Bayesian networks and then discuss our collective approach to learning a Bayesian network that is specically designed for a distributed data scenario.
Those probabilities that involve only variables from a single site can be estimated locally, whereas the ones that involve variables from dierent sites can be estimated at the central site.
Collective Mining of Bayesian Networks from Distributed Heterogeneous Data 9 the observations for A are available at site A, whereas the observations for B are available at a dierent site B. Furthermore, we assume that there is a common feature (\key" or index) that can be used to associate a given observation in site A to a corresponding observation in site B. Naturally, At each local site, a local Bayesian network can be learned using only samples in this site.
Figure 3 (top left) depicts the CKL distance of node E and gure 3 (top right) depicts the CKL distance of node D. Clearly, even with a small data communication, the estimates of the conditional probabilities of the cross-terms, based on our collective approach, is quite close to that obtained by the centralized approach.
