We also restrict our attention to the metric version of the problems throughout this paper; the given distance matrix defines a metric space over the set of input points, that is, the distances are nonnegative, symmetric, satisfy the triangle inequality, and the distance between points x and y is zero if and only if y.
In addition to this sampling result, our algorithms rely on an extraction technique due to Guha et al. [5] that uses a black box O(1)-approximate k-median algorithm to compute a (k, O(1))- configuration from any (m, O(1))-assignment.
Indyk's algorithm combines random sampling of the input points with a black-box (k, )-approximate k-median algorithm to achieve a ((1+)(6+3)k, 2)-approximate algorithm, where  is the desired success probability.
The following algorithm takes as input an instance of the k-median problem and produces an assignment  such that with high probability, c O(cost (X)) for any k-configuration X . Construct a set of points S i by sampling (with replacement) bk 0 c times from U i , where at each sampling step the probability of selecting a given point is proportional to its weight.
Proof: Note that a crude upper bound on f(m; "; b) is given by the probability of obtaining at most (1 ")m successes in dbe Bernoulli trials, each of which has success probability ".
Then cost (X) is at least cost (i r 0it 0it 0it 0it where the first step follows from Lemma 2.8, the second step follows from averaging and the choice of j, the third step follows from Lemma 2.10, the fourth step follows from Lemma 2.7, and the last step follows since C i  U .
We then obtain a (k, O(1))-configuration by creating a problem instance from the (O(krw ), O(1))-configuration computed in the previous step and then feeding this problem instance as input to an O(1)-approximate k-median algorithm.
We now observe that the above algorithm corresponds to the special case of algorithm Small- Space of [5] in which the parameter ' is set to r w , the uniform weights algorithm of Section 3 is used in step 2 of Small-Space, and the online median algorithm of [10] is used in step 4 of Small- Space.
