Assuming, furthermore, that the CGLS method is terminated at a point such that #z k - z# d#A#x#, the authors conclude that the CGLS method is eventually expected to achieve an approximate solution that is as good as any forward stable method for solving the least squares problem.
This method constructs an orthonormal basis for the Krylov subspace K k After k iterations, the process can summarized by the Lanczos relation: where the columns v 0 , . , v k of V k+1 , form an orthonormal basis for K k+1 and the symmetric k-k tridiagonal matrix T k collects the coe#cients computed during the execution of the Lanczos algorithm.
This shows that, if the Lanczos relation is known for one system, the iterates of the CGLS method for the damped least squares problem (2.8) can be directly computed from this relation and are, in fact, equal to A multishift CGLS method constructs the orthonormal basis once and at the same time computes (3.4) for the required values of #, of course without storing all Lanczos vectors.
Using the standard model for floating point arithmetic we get (cf. (2.6) and the initialization computations assuming that all quantities in step minus one have length zero) #f z #f r Combining this with the notation from the previous section, we find that the quantities computed by the CGLS recurrences in finite precision arithmetic satisfy the perturbed relations given by k , R k .
Since the vector b does not appear in the Lanczos part, it follows that the multishift CGLS method based on the standard Lanczos method at best computes a solution to This shows that, in the nearly consistent case and # = 0, the forward error is, at best, much less than optimal.
For future convenience we define and we note that Using this relation and the relations given in Section 4.1, the true residual, corresponding to the normal equations, can be written as We plug in the expression for the perturbation term given by Lemma 4.1 and we arrive at our main relation: with This expression plays a similar role in this section as Proposition 2.2 plays for the analysis of the attainable accuracy of the CGLS method.
We now discuss the second main source of errors in the multishift method which is the di#erence between x # , computed using (6.4) and (6.5), and the exact expression R k In [5, Section 4.3], Dhillon and Parlett present a roundo# error analysis of the dstqds algorithm which shows that the outcome of this algorithm is relatively close to the outcome of an exact transformation applied to factors relatively close to the original input.
If we define x # k as the iterate computed in an exact conjugate gradient method applied to the matrix A with starting vector b, as defined in Section 5.1, then we can show that Here, we have used, essentially, the same technique as used for bounding the vector w (3) in the case that Hence, we do not expect that rounding errors in the computation of the vector x # have a significant influence on the attainable accuracy of the multishift CGLS method.
