Introduction Consider the singular value decomposition (SVD) of a matrix loss of generality, m. Denote its singular triplets by In this paper we are interested in computing few, say k, of the smallest singular triplets of a general large sparse matrix.
Furthermore, since computing the smallest eigenvalues values of a matrix is equivalent to computing the largest eigenvalues values of its inverse, significant work has been done on "shift-and-invert" techniques.
Furthermore, by not approximating squared singular values we do not aggravate any existing clustering of the smallest singular values of A. 4.2 LBD and Harmonic Ritz Values Ritz values readily provide a straightforward shift strategy.
In order to secure satisfactory convergence rates we can try to approximate the smallest singular values of A by computing the largest Ritz values of (AA # ) -1 .
Furthermore, if - # S# is the singular value decomposition of - thus we have to compute the eigenvalues of a symmetric rank-one modification of a diagonal matrix (see [10] sec. 8.6).
These methods were: IRBLSVDS-IRBLEIGS: Code due to Baglama, Calvetti, and Reichel and based on implicitly restarted block Lanczos ([1]) designed to compute one or more eigenvalues and/or singular values 2 . JDQZ: Code based on Jacobi-Davidson QZ method due to Fokkema, Sleijpen and van de Vorst and implemented in MATLAB ([7]) 3 . Note that if asked to compute few of the smallest singular values of sparse matrices, the MATLAB 6 built-in function svds, that is based on a compiled implementation of ARPACK (eigs), applies shift-and-invert and requires an LU decomposition of the augmented matrix C.
It is evident that as the clustering of the smallest singular values of A s increases, harmonic Ritz values either converge significantly faster (they require fewer restarts) or, with the same backward error (2-norm of residual) used for the Ritz values, produce results with better forward relative error.
We would also like to thank Valeria Simoncini, for bringing to our attention [21] and PROPACK; Henk van der Vorst for helpful discussions during HERCMA'01 in Athens and his suggestion that we consider using harmonic Ritz values; Gerard Sleijpen and Michiel Hochstenbach for their useful comments concerning stability issues; and Andreas Stathopoulos for many insightful discussions regarding all aspects of this work.
