The neural network described in [31] is based on Mumford's observation that the evolution in time of the probability density function (p.d.f.) representing the position, (x; y), and direction, , of the particle can be modeled as a set of independent advection equations acting in the (x; y) dimension coupled in the  dimension by the diusion equation [21].
These features are that (1) all states of the computation be represented in a wavelet-like basis of functions which are localized in both space and frequency (spatial localization allows the computation to be performed in parallel); (2) the computation operates on the coecients in the wavelet-like transform and can be implemented in a neural network; (3) the computation is Euclidean invariant; and (4) it is accomplished using basis functions with centers lying on a (relatively) sparse grid in the image plane.
In particular, if each frequency, !, the transformed coecient vector, c ! (~x is the circular convolution of the original coecient vector, c g, with the interpolation function vector, Although it is not as biologically plausible as the other bases we describe, the Gaussian- Fourier basis can be a very ecient basis to use in computer vision because of equation (2.17) and because in certain cases the input can be easily represented in the basis.
For example, suppose that the input is modeled as a linear combination of ne scale three-dimensional Gaussians, centered at arbitrary points, (~x Since the input is the product of a Gaussian in ~x and a Gaussian in  it can be represented in a single scale Gaussian- Fourier basis as follows.
Unlike the Gaussian-Fourier basis, the CDDG-Fourier basis has the property that its spatial factor, (~x), is a wavelet, which means that arbitrary input functions can be represented in a multi-scale shiftable-twistable basis constructed from the functions, ! .
This invariance is achieved by rst evolving the Fokker-Planck equation in a shiftable-twistable basis of R 2  S 1 to obtain representations of the source and sink elds in the basis, and then multiplying these representations in a shift-twist invariant manner to obtain a representation of the completion eld in a shiftable-twistable basis.
Rather than solving the Fokker-Planck equation with Gaussian initial conditions, we take a directional derivative in the spatial variables, ~x, of the initial conditions, (as in equation (2.18)) to obtain new initial conditions which are sums of functions of the form, shift of the basis function, (~x), and g is a Gaussian.
To verify equation (11.8), observe that and that, by completing the square, k~x ~ kk 2 +k~x ~ 'k  Acknowledgments  J.W.Z. was supported (in part) by the Albuquerque High Performance Computing Center.
