By extending the first treatment, we use an alternate equivalent definition of the category of equilogical spaces to give a definition of a model of dependent type theory and logic, analogous to the work over PCAs.
The category Set is also a cartesian closed category, meaning that the function- space construct or the internal hom-functor is very well behaved, in the sense that the functor \Delta \Theta B is adjoint to objects B. However, it has been known for a long time that in Top no such assertion is available, because in general it is not possible to assign a topology to the set of continuous functions making this adjointness valid-except under some special conditions on the space B. Many remedies have been proposed, notably, (a) cutting down to compactly generated spaces, or (b) expanding the category to the category of filter spaces (or a related kind of limit space).
The new category is formed from the category Top 0 of topological -spaces by using spaces together with arbitrary equivalence relations, to form the category, to be called called Equ, where the mappings are (suitable equivalence classes of) continuous mappings which preserve the equivalence relations.
We remark that the category of equivalence relations on sets is included here: a set is just a discrete topological space (and these form a full subcategory of Top 0 Of course, with the aid of the Axiom of Choice, it is quickly shown that the category of equivalence relations is equivalent to the category of sets (via the obvious use of quotient sets).
We first introduce yet another equivalent definition of the category Equ, which will allow us to proceed by analogy to the category of partial equivalence relations over a PCA (see, e.g., [25,1,2]).
For example, we might use the cartesian closed category @ 0 ALat of countably based algebraic lattices, equivalent to the category of algebraic sublattices of PN.
In fact, instead of the category of modest sets one uses the equivalent category of partial equivalence relations to get a small category.
The crucical point is that this small category can be seen as an internal category in the category of assemblies and that the externalization of this internal category is a fibration equivalent to the fibration of uniform modest sets over the assemblies, which thus has a generic object allowing us to get an impredicative small universe of types as in the calculus of constructions.
