shaving systems are disclosed that include a handle having a distal end and a proximal end ; and a shaving assembly , disposed at the distal end of the handle , the shaving assembly including a blade unit comprising a plurality of blades disposed in a housing , the housing having a front cutting side and an opposite rear side and a plurality of measurement elements on a trailing edge of the rear side .
the present disclosure relates generally to consumer products and , in particular , to shaving systems .
in one embodiment , the present disclosure features a consumer product system having a handle and a blade unit mounted on the handle .
the blade unit comprises a housing that contains a plurality of blades , the edges of which are exposed on the bottom surface of the blade unit ( the surface that contacts the user & # 39 ; s skin during shaving ) .
the opposite surface , or top , of the housing includes a plurality of measurement elements which are configured to assist the user in obtaining a precise shave , as will be discussed further below .
referring to fig1 , the handle 12 provides a manner in which the shaving system 10 can be manipulated and leverage can be applied to achieve desired shaving results .
measurement elements 30 are positioned on the top surface of the blade unit 20 that is visible to the user during shaving , in a measured manner to allow the user to reference them while shaving .
the measurement elements 30 provide a means for the user to more precisely gauge where to utilize the shaving system 10 when sculpting facial and body hair features , e .
for example , the measurement elements 30 , as well as the evenly spaced ruled lines 36 between the measurement elements ( fig1 a ) , allow the user to easily determine whether opposite side burns or opposite sides of a mustache are even or whether one side or the other requires further trimming .
as shown in fig1 , during shaving the user can use the measurement elements 30 to measure the width of a facial hair feature ( e .
