disclosed is a beverage container having an internal flexible straw having spaced apart flexure joints positioned to create pressure within the straw body so that when the pull tab is removed from its covering position of the beverage body port the stored energy within the straw flexure joint portions will extend the top portion of the straw through the body port opening into an operative position .
the following discussion describes in detail one embodiment of the invention ( and several variations of that embodiment ) .
this discussion should not be construed , however , as limiting the invention to those particular embodiments , practitioners skilled in the art will recognize numerous other embodiments as well .
for definition of the complete scope of the invention , the reader is directed to appended claims .
referring to fig1 , shown is the present invention in use comprising containers having self deploying straws .
in an alternate method of producing a straw with stored energy consists of using a straw made of a memory retentive material whereby the accordion folds have a closed memory state and an open memory state so that when partially extended the remaining open memory state pressure forms potential energy 66 .
an aid is provided by the present invention in deploying straw 18 by providing adhesive element 52 between straw 18 and pull tab 16 so that the user imparts a force in deploying straw 18 .
also provided is indicator 54 positioned on the exterior housing corner of the straw location as a user informational aid .
while certain novel features of this invention have been shown and described and are pointed out in the annexed claims , it is not intended to be limited to the details above , since it will be understood that various omissions , modifications , substitutions and changes in the forms and details of the device illustrated and in its operation can be made by those skilled in the art without departing in any way from the spirit of the present invention .
without further analysis , the foregoing will so fully reveal the gist of the present invention that others can , by applying current knowledge , readily adapt it for various applications without omitting features that , from the standpoint of prior art , fairly constitute essential characteristics of the generic or specific aspects of this invention .
