the method for portioning discrete articles by feeding the articles and generating signals controlling the gates is suited for a combined plurality of such assemblies to provide high speed continuous container filling operations for simultaneous filling of groups of containers .
at a top of the assembly , articles received from a feeder enter feed tube 2 and fall through an article detecting unit 10 , preferably a light sensing detector of the type according to the aforementioned u .
this arrangement allows for easy , rapid disassembly of the counting head assembly for inspection , cleaning and maintenance without tools , as the front wall 19 may be easily removed from the front of counting head assembly 1 by sliding upwards a short distance and lifting over the retaining pin 21 .
the pressure applied by pin 21 to seal the edges of front wall 19 against the sides of the chamber is preferably adjustable , for example , by use of a threaded pin or pin cap , or , as illustrated in fig1 b , with a bushing and lock ring apparatus 22 at the rear of the chamber which draws the pin towards the rear of the chamber .
the chamber is divided into left and right channels by a center divider 25 , which in this embodiment is located by locating dowels 26 at a rear divider edge , and retained in the chamber at a front divider edge by front wall 19 .
adjacent to the top of center divider 25 is provided an upper diverting gate 30 , which is rotatably mounted on a shaft 31 of a smart servo unit 35 to divert articles falling through detecting unit 10 into one of the left or right channels .
the smart servo 35 includes a high torque electric motor drive , and a processor which allows the unit to determine the rotary position of its shaft 31 .
in operation , once smart servo 35 has performed a start up calibration to determine the position of its rotary shaft 31 , the smart servo can move upper diverting gate 30 from a starting position to a desired end position at a very high , variable speed rotation , while controlling deceleration into the desired end position to prevent over travel of gate 30 .
in addition , the smart servo 35 permits the exact tracking of the position and progress of the gate through its movement arc .
preferably , the smart servo and / or its controller is programmed to position the upper diverting gate 30 sufficiently close to either side wall to prevent articles from passing between the gate and the side wall , or becoming lodged therebetween , but far enough away to permit high speed movement without wall strikes .
