improved compositions for tissue augmentation are provided .
these compositions comprise an amount of crosslinked material sufficient to provide a melt temperature greater than 37c , wherein microparticles can be substantially uniformly dispersed and maintained at ambient room temperature as well as body temperature .
said compositions also provide high shear moduli , sufficient to effectively deliver microparticles into dense tissue and narrow intersticial spaces without significant disruption to the homogeneous distribution of microparticles within the solution .
the provided compositions can be stored and shipped at room temperature without significant detriment to the material composition .
additional embodiments include a system for delivery of tissue augmentation materials and methods of manufacture thereof .
although the disclosure herein refers to certain described embodiments , it is to be understood that embodiments presented herein are by way of example and not by way of limitation .
the intent of this disclosure , while discussing exemplary embodiments , is that the following detailed description be construed to cover all modifications , alternatives , and equivalents of the embodiments as may fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims .
it is to be understood and appreciated that the process steps and formulations described herein do not cover a complete process flow for operations involving compounding , tissue augmentation , and repair .
the present invention may be practiced in conjunction with various techniques that are conventionally used in the art , and only so much of the commonly practiced process steps are included herein as are necessary to provide an understanding of the present invention .
the methods and systems described herein can allow physicians to repair , treat or augment a patient & # 39 ; s tissue or fluids using an enhanced tissue treatment implant which may take the form of a biocompatible augmentation or repair material .
