the invention relates to a device for damping an upper suspension part in at least one spatial direction with respect to a lower suspension part movable relative thereto , wherein a spring apparatus which acts between the upper suspension part and the lower suspension part is provided for damping , wherein an actuating element is provided by way of which a force can be introduced into the device bidirectionally in the operating direction of the spring apparatus , wherein the actuating element is actuable via a control apparatus .
in the present case , the spring means 3 consists of a scissor type support apparatus 6 and of a spring 5 in the form of an air spring , by means of which movements in a vertical direction z can be damped .
in this respect the scissor type support apparatus 6 consists of a first scissors 10 and a second scissors 13 .
the first scissors 10 consists of a first inner link 7 and a first outer link 8 , these being interconnected so as to be pivotable with respect to one another approximately in the centres thereof .
the second scissors 13 consists of a second inner link 11 and a second outer link 12 , which are likewise interconnected so as to be pivotable with respect to one another approximately in the centres thereof .
the lower ends of the first inner link 7 and the second inner link 11 are arranged on a floating bearing transverse connection 24 , which is mounted in fixed bearings 25 arranged fixedly on the lower suspension face 2 .
at the upper ends thereof , the first inner link 7 and the second inner link 11 are interconnected by means of an additional floating bearing transverse connection 31 , at the ends of which there are rollers 32 which are guided in guide rails 26 and 28 arranged on the upper vehicle face .
by means of the entire spring apparatus 6 , in this respect the distance between the upper suspension face 1 and the lower suspension face 2 can be varied by force input , for example if a force is applied to the device arranged in a vehicle seat by a person sitting down on the vehicle seat .
since during operation of the device in a vehicle seat oscillations due to irregularities in the road surface on which the vehicle is moving or due to displacement of the weight of the person sitting on the seat vary the force introduced to the device according to the invention during operation of the vehicle , an actuating element 4 , by means of which the externally introduced force input into the device can be countered , is provided for compensating this force input .
the drive 23 in the form of a rotary field magnet 14 is arranged fixedly on the lower suspension face 2 , whilst the coupling rod 16 is arranged on the floating bearing transverse connection 30 via a fixing element 22 .
