Although Davidson's work is not very well known to AI researchers, the logical analysis it provides is very close to that employed by a wide variety of AI representations based on reied events.
The dierence between this and Davidson's formulation does not seem to have any concrete semantic signicance and in developing our semantics we have found it more intuitive to use treat verbs as relation-like with a small xed arity, as does Davidson.
In speciying the semantics for events we shall neet to refer to the interval in which an event occurs; however, an interval [s:::f ] alone is not enough to locate the event within the branches of the structure: we must also take into account the history on which it occurs.
Popular categories include: punctual event types are those all of whose constituent episodes are of the durative event types have all episodes of the form [s::f unitary (or solid) event types have the property that they never contain two episodes such that one is a proper sub-episode of the other.
Consider the types: l = John-stand-on-one-leg, a = John-eat-an-apple, la John-stand-on-one-leg-while-eat-apple.
Thus we might write: (9president; a)[woman[a]], since presidents and women are both individuals of the same kind and share the same trans-world identity criteria; but (9quantity-of-wood; a)[ship(a)], since, although ships and quantities of wood may be materially identical (co- realised) in some world state, they do not have the same trans-world identity criteria (e.g. consider the ship of Theseus).
We use the notation A (x!v) to refer to that assignment A 0 which assigns the value v to the variable x and for all other variables assigns exactly the same values as A. 5 Thus, in general, the abstracted event type depends on the time t of the point of evaluation; but in most useful cases '() will actually be invariant over time, unless ' contains some embedded indexical.
Kamp found that his axioms were incomplete relative to his intended models, because they do not support inferences dependent on temporal interpolations involving more than one history; however, we believe that our expicit axiomatisation of a time structure shared by all histories solves this problem.
