Specically, we are interested in the expres- Preprint submitted to Elsevier Science siveness of the \denite" fragment of C+ that is implemented in the Causal Calculator (CCalc).
The two test domains discussed in this paper, the Zoo World and the Tra-c World, have been proposed by Erik Sandewall in his Logic Modelling Workshop environment for communicating axiomatizations of action domains of nontrivial size.
These two main parts of the paper do not logically depend on each other and can be read in any order.
The distinction between a 'large' number of positions and a `small' number of locations suggests in particular that locations can be individually named under a unique names assumption, that every location is thus named, but on the other hand that at most a few of the positions are named, and that the number of positions is left unspecied in every scenario.
Intuitively, it might be the case that the animal intends to throw the rider o at precisely the moment that the rider intends to dismount, but, according to our formalization, only one of those two actions can in fact occur|either the animal manages to throw the rider o, or the rider manages to dismount.
For instance, the dynamic law caused ds after ds says that if (i) car c is going to remain on the same road segment during the next time interval, (ii) the distance travelled by c along that segment so far is ds, and (iii) the speed of c during that time interval is going to be equal to sp, then by the end of the time interval the distance travelled by c along the current road segment will become ds 5.3 Formalization Our formalization of the Tra-c World is shown below and is available online 6 .
The relation between modifiedSegment and segment is similar caused modifiedSegment(C)=Sg if nextSegment(C)=none segment(C)=Sg. caused modifiedSegment(C)=Sg if nextSegment(C)=Sg. constants Maximum speed allowed by the top speed of a car and the speed % limit of the segment on which the car will be travelling caused if topSpeed(C)=Sp & nextSegment(C)=none (As in 6 of Section 3, the argument of speedLimit is supposed to be an object, not a constant.
A logic program related to the Zoo World was written by several members of Texas Action Group in September of 1999, 7 and discussing that program with Michael Gelfond helped us in our work on this paper in many ways.
