Whereas a typical functional decomposition might resemble the sequence: sensors task recognition ! motor control, Brooks would decompose the same domain as follows: avoid objects monitor changes ! identify objects ! plan actions reason about object behavior increasing levels of competence.
At the same time, it is possible to have high priority tasks in a lower layer (such as halting when an object is dead-ahead) continue to have high precedence by simply not allowing any higher layers to tamper with those particular tasks.
The turn module commands the robot to make the required turn, then passes the speed on to the forward module which, if not in a halt state, commands the robot to move forward with the specified speed.
We have implemented the above theory using the PTTP theorem prover ((Stickel 1988b), (Stickel 1988a), (Stickel 1992)) on a Sun Ultra60 Creator3D with 640MB RAM running Solaris 2.6 with Quintus Prolog as the underlying interpreter for PTTP.
Given a theory made of clauses (not necessarily disjunctive) without quantifiers, the PTTP produces a set of PROLOG-like horn clauses, it makes sure only sound unification is produced and avoids the negation-as-failure proofs that are produced by the PROLOG inference algorithm.
We ran our theory with different simulated sensory inputs (results from a sample run are shown in figures 5, 7, and 6 in the appendix) and the results were achieved in 0.2 to 0.3 seconds, depending on whether a turn was needed (leaning towards 0.2 seconds) or a forward move was needed (leaning mostly towards 0.3 seconds).
Although our control theory is much simpler than that of (Shanahan 1998), we can in fact include a version of the original theory presented by Shanahan as an upper layer.
Besides implementing the system on a mobile robot, our future work plan includes expanding the layers described in this paper to contain planning layers, map- creating layers (e.g., creating a map of the world (pos- sibly following the work of Shanahan)), layers that contain beliefs about the world (e.g., we may want to doubt our conclusion that we are in a certain location if we believe that a moment ago we were in a distant location and no reasonable change was done to the world to put us in that new location), etc.
