In astronomy, the size of telescope image archives have already reached the terabyte range and they continue to increase very fast as information is collected for new all-sky surveyors such as the GSC-II (McLean, Hawkins, Spagna, Lattanzi, Lasker, Jenkner and White, 1998) and the Sloan Digital Survey (Szalay, 1998).
Spiegelhalter and Lauritzen (1990) and Buntine (1991) discuss parameter learning of a BN from complete data, whereas Binder, Koller, Russel and Kanazawa (1997) and Thiesson (1995) discuss parameter learning from incomplete data using gradient method.
Learning the structure of a BN based on the Minimal Description Length (MDL) principle has been presented by Bouck- aert (1994), Lam and Bacchus (1994), and Suzuki (1993).
Learning BN structure 6 R. Chen et al using greedy hill-climbing and other variants was introduced by Heckerman and Gieger (1995), whereas Chickering (1996) introduced a method based on search over equivalence network classes.
In the following, we briey review Bayesian networks and then discuss our collective approach to learning a Bayesian network that is specically designed for a distributed data scenario.
Collective Mining of Bayesian Networks from Distributed Heterogeneous Data 9 the observations for A are available at site A, whereas the observations for B are available at a dierent site B. Furthermore, we assume that there is a common feature (\key" or index) that can be used to associate a given observation in site A to a corresponding observation in site B. Naturally, At each local site, a local Bayesian network can be learned using only samples in this site.
In particular, Note that, the rst three terms in the right-hand side of (5) involve variables local to site A, whereas the last two terms are the so-called cross terms, involving variables from sites A and B. Similarly, it can be shown that P(B Therefore, an observation low likelihood at both sites A and B; i.e. for which both P(A) and P(B) are small, is an indication that both are large for that observation (since observations with small P(V) are less likely to occur).
The ALARM network has been developed for on-line monitoring of patients in intensive care units and generously contributed to the community by Bein- lich, Suermondt, Chavez and Cooper (1989).
