Errors in such systems, where multi-million dollar transactions are carried out, can be very costly; ad-hoc repairs after failure are not acceptable.
For example, almost Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page.
This enables us to analyze Web based software systems at a greater level of detail without ad-hoc data abstractions.
Here g, g0 , g1 , . , gk represent MSL types, b is a basic data type such as string, integer or boolean, t is a tag, and m and n are two positive integers where m # n. Intuitively, the semantics of the above MSL type expressions can be summarized as follows: t[g0] denotes a type with a root node labeled with t and children with types that match the sequence of MSL types represented by g0 ; g1{m,n} denotes a sequence of size at least m and at most n where each member is of type g1 ; g1, . ,gk denotes an ordered sequence where the first member is of type g1 , the second member is of type g2 , and so on; and, g1| .
For the MSL types constructed using the choice operator |, a variable choice is used to record the actual type chosen in an XML instance of the MSL type (e.g., the choice attribute declared in t6 payment).
For each macro, the input node characterizes the starting node where the macro starts search- ing, and the output node is the starting point of its embedment.
If exp is not intermediate (e.g. it is used as a boolean branching condi- tion), we need additional processing (calling InsertAndReplace) to insert another IF macro into the synthesized code.
The normal mode is for the first time the last() call is encountered; in the copy mode the last() is encountered for a second time when the pre-calculation code is being generated; the processed mode is the case where the value for the last() call has been pre-calculated and this value should not be changed any more.
