The computation of few extremal singular triplets of large sparse matrices has been the focus of many research e#orts, see [3,9,22,21,30,33,35] as well as Preprint submitted to Elsevier Science [2,10,29,36,15] and numerous references therein.
Our presentation in the remainder of this section owes a lot to the discussion of Sleijpen and van der Vorst in [33] regarding harmonic Ritz values (the reader can also refer to [14] for a relevant discussion).
As described in Section 4, if we select to shift with Ritz values, we prefer, in terms of stability, to compute singular values of B l rather than eigenvalues of B l B # l .
These methods were: IRBLSVDS-IRBLEIGS: Code due to Baglama, Calvetti, and Reichel and based on implicitly restarted block Lanczos ([1]) designed to compute one or more eigenvalues and/or singular values 2 . JDQZ: Code based on Jacobi-Davidson QZ method due to Fokkema, Sleijpen and van de Vorst and implemented in MATLAB ([7]) 3 . Note that if asked to compute few of the smallest singular values of sparse matrices, the MATLAB 6 built-in function svds, that is based on a compiled implementation of ARPACK (eigs), applies shift-and-invert and requires an LU decomposition of the augmented matrix C.
It is evident that as the clustering of the smallest singular values of A s increases, harmonic Ritz values either converge significantly faster (they require fewer restarts) or, with the same backward error (2-norm of residual) used for the Ritz values, produce results with better forward relative error.
Since the #-pseudospectrum of a matrix can be defined as the locus of points z of the complex plane that satisfy the inequality # min (zI -A) #, it becomes of critical importance to use fast algorithms to estimate the smallest singular value (see [37] for a comprehensive survey).
A first version of this work was developed in the context of the first author's Diploma thesis ([18]) and presented during the International Workshop on Parallel Matrix Algorithms and Applications (PMAA'02) held in Neuch-atel.
We would also like to thank Valeria Simoncini, for bringing to our attention [21] and PROPACK; Henk van der Vorst for helpful discussions during HERCMA'01 in Athens and his suggestion that we consider using harmonic Ritz values; Gerard Sleijpen and Michiel Hochstenbach for their useful comments concerning stability issues; and Andreas Stathopoulos for many insightful discussions regarding all aspects of this work.
