In traditional real-time systems, for example, admission control has been used for processing jobs with what are termed firm deadlines [16].
If a system issues a job request with a firm deadline this job does not necessarily need to be completed, however completing the job provides no utility if its deadline has passed.
Research completed while at Princeton University, supported by DIMACS (Center for Discrete Mathematics and Theoretical Computer Science), a National Science Foundation Science and Technology Center.
Adapting their constructions to our model where the value of \Delta is known results in lower bounds of with two distinct lengths and \Omega\Gammad/1 \Delta) with arbitrarily many lengths.
For the inductive step, we assume a sequence for value k and prove the existence for k + 1. n: s:  Figure  2: The first case of Theorem 2, in which oe runs J at time t. s: n:  Figure  3: The second case of Theorem 2, in which  runs J at time t.
In order to design a competitive randomized algorithm, we apply Lemma 6 to provide a base algorithm for the "Classify and Randomly Select" technique, together with the following lemma given by Awerbuch et al. [2].
We fix an arbitrarily large \Delta and define the following four problem instances, shown in  Figure  4: ffl Instance I 1 consists of J ffl Instance I 2 consists of J I e e I 2 Figure  4: Four problem instances from proof of Theorem 10 maximum possible gain given behavior instance gain opt A B C D I I I 3 I 4  Table  1: Summary of potential gains from proof of Theorem 10 ffl Instance I 3 consists of J ffl Instance I 4 consists of J Given any of the above four instances, we can classify a particular execution of an algorithm into one of exactly four disjoint behaviors: ffl Behavior A: J 1 was accepted and began processing at time ffl Behavior B: J 1 was accepted, but the resource remained idle at time ffl Behavior C: J 1 was rejected and J 2 was accepted; ffl Behavior D: both J 1 and J 2 were rejected.
Case L3: Execution in which Q \Delta is not empty at time t, and a small job S receives the consideration of a coin flip at some point during the interval Based on the algorithm, S would only be given this consideration at a time when Q \Delta is empty, yet by time t, Q \Delta is not empty.
