Hence, by Fagin's theorem [Fag74, EF95], the problems that can be formulated as finding a solution of some relational algebra equation are nothing but the problems in NP.
For example, Abiteboul and Vianu [AV91] showed that the parity query is not expressible in the polynomial-space fragment of various computationally complete query languages  Closer to our topic is the work of Suciu and Paredaens [SP97], who showed that queries such as transitive closure and parity are not expressible in the polynomial-space fragment of the powerset algebra for nested relations.
We also mention Grumbach and Vianu [GV95], who also studied a sparsity notion in connection with queries over nested relational databases, although they considered sparsity as a property of databases rather than of query language expressions  Suciu and Paredaens conjectured in general that the polynomial-space fragment of the powerset algebra has no more power than the nested relational algebra without powerset.
The proof involves an elegant argu- ment, in the style of Liebeck [Lie83], invoking Bochert's theorem on the order of primitive permutation groups.
One may wonder whether the notion of sparsity would change if, in Definition 5.1, we would look only at databases over the schema consisting of the relation names that actually occur free in the equation.
There exists a sparse equation whose nonemptiness problem is NP-complete, if and only if 7 Sparse equations versus sparse powerset expressions Naturally, we call an equation algebra expression sparse if all equations occurring in it are sparse, cf. Proposition 5.4.
The equation constructed in the above proof is not only sparse, it is unam- biguous: it has a unique solution on each input database.
We can write a relational algebra expression e such that on any database C over fR; X;Y g, e(C) is empty if and only if X is a singleton fxg with x Rg. Hence, the expression is a sparse equation expression equivalent to The construction for general nesting operations is analogous.
