Information drawn from the corpus as a whole generally consists of aggregates of statistics gathered from each document considered in isolation; for example, the inverse document frequency is based on checking, for each docu- ment, whether that document contains a particular term.
For example, we could infer that a document not containing a certain query term is still relevant if the document belongs to a cluster whose component documents generally do contain the term.
For a text sequence ~ wn , the Dirichlet-smoothed language model induced from d assigns the following probability to ~ w: Y where the free parameter  controls the degree to which the document's statistics are altered by the overall corpus statis- tics, and \ML" indicates the maximum-likelihood estimate.
This formulation is actually equivalent to a log-likelihood criterion under certain assumptions [11], but in practice is less sensitive than p Dir d (d 0 ) to variations in the length of d 0 . For a given cluster c, the corresponding language model pc() is induced by concatenating c's component documents and then applying the document-LM induction method to the new \document".
While one of our goals is to demonstrate that incorporating corpus structure as in our retrieval framework can provide improvements over the performance of the standard LM algorithm, we also wish to detemine whether our algorithms are competitive with state-of-the-art language-modeling-based algorithms.
Finally, the generally high performance of our aspect-x and interpolation algorithms seems to support our claims as to the importance of using corpus-structural information in the particular ways we have suggested: specically, in these two algorithms, clusters play both a selection and a smoothing role, and both document-specic information and intra-cluster structure are incorporated as well.
Thanks to ChengXiang Zhai and Victor Lavrenko for answering questions about their work, and Andres Corra- da-Emmanuel for responding to queries about Lemur.
This paper is based upon work supported in part by the National Science Foundation under grants ITR/IM IIS-0081334 and IIS-0329064 and by an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship.
