Freeman and Adelson [9] clearly appreciated the importance of the issues raised above when they devised the notion of a steerable basis to implement rotationally invariant computations.
Gabor functions are well suited to the purpose of encoding visual information, since, by the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle, they are the unique functions which are maximally localized in both space and frequency.
These features are that (1) all states of the computation be represented in a wavelet-like basis of functions which are localized in both space and frequency (spatial localization allows the computation to be performed in parallel); (2) the computation operates on the coecients in the wavelet-like transform and can be implemented in a neural network; (3) the computation is Euclidean invariant; and (4) it is accomplished using basis functions with centers lying on a (relatively) sparse grid in the image plane.
The only dierence is that in this case, the interpolation functions in equations (2.13) and (2.16) are given by  Figure  3: The real part of the complex directional derivative of a Gaussian (CDDG), steered clockwise by 45  . Left: Real part with standard deviation, (with 40:0  40:0 display region).
The multi-scale method of representing the input function exploits the fact that the function, (~x), is a mother wavelet which generates an (approximately) self-inverting, over-complete wavelet basis [26] (i.e., an approximately tight frame [4]).
The combined eect of these three terms is that particles tend to travel in straight lines, but over time they drift to the left or right by an amount proportional to  2 . Finally, the eect of the fourth term is that particles decay over time, with a half life given by the decay constant,  .
Stochastic completion elds computed using the nite dierencing scheme of [31] exhibit marked anisotropic spatial smoothing due to the manner in which 2D advection is performed on a grid (see Figures 7,8 and 9).
To verify equation (11.8), observe that and that, by completing the square, k~x ~ kk 2 +k~x ~ 'k  Acknowledgments  J.W.Z. was supported (in part) by the Albuquerque High Performance Computing Center.
