In our conference paper [6], the reader will find an abstract framework due to Carboni and Rosolini in which the categories of equilogical spaces and partial equivalence relations over PCAs fit.
The final section of the paper shows how the work of Y. Ershov and E. Berger concerning the Kleene-Kreisel hierarchy of countable functionals and extensions can be incorporated into the category of equilogical spaces.
The category Set is also a cartesian closed category, meaning that the function- space construct or the internal hom-functor is very well behaved, in the sense that the functor \Delta \Theta B is adjoint to objects B. However, it has been known for a long time that in Top no such assertion is available, because in general it is not possible to assign a topology to the set of continuous functions making this adjointness valid-except under some special conditions on the space B. Many remedies have been proposed, notably, (a) cutting down to compactly generated spaces, or (b) expanding the category to the category of filter spaces (or a related kind of limit space).
Suggestion (a) applies only to Hausdorff spaces, and suggestion (2)-which the authors consider the more interesting from a logical point of view-introduces very unfamiliar spaces at the higher types (i.e., after iterating the function-space construct several times).
We first introduce yet another equivalent definition of the category Equ, which will allow us to proceed by analogy to the category of partial equivalence relations over a PCA (see, e.g., [25,1,2]).
The binary product of (X; A; EX ) and (Y; B;E Y ) is (X \Theta Y; A \Theta B;E) with Here we make use of the binary products in the category of algebraic lattices, in analogy with the way in which the product operation of a PCA is used to prove that the category of assemblies and modest sets over such has binary products.
For the comprehension category to have strong split coproducts (modelling dependent sums) we need, with notation as in the previous ourparagraph, first to have left adjoints X to - X , for projections -X , satisfying a Beck-Chevalley condition.
The crucical point is that this small category can be seen as an internal category in the category of assemblies and that the externalization of this internal category is a fibration equivalent to the fibration of uniform modest sets over the assemblies, which thus has a generic object allowing us to get an impredicative small universe of types as in the calculus of constructions.
