Like in every other advertising channel, web advertisers must have a way to measure the exposure of their ads by obtaining usage statistics about web sites which contain their ads.
Consequently, advertisers should prevent the web sites from inflating the count of their visits in order to demand more money.
For example, Franklin and Malkhi [13] suggested metering schemes as a method to measure the amount of money that companies, willing to pay for the cost required to access their web sites, should pay to the users' ISPs.
They showed how to construct a metering scheme realizing any access structure, where the access structure is the family of all subsets of clients, called qualified sets, which enable a server to compute its proof (i.e., if a server receives visits from all clients belonging to some qualified set, then it can compute the proof).
We denote by P t the random variable associated to the proofs computed by servers having indices in B in time frame t. Similarly, we denote by V [t] the random variable associated to the information known by the servers in B in time frames t. Given a set of clients X and a set of server indices B, we denote by X t the random variable associated to the information given by clients in X to servers having indices in B in time frame t. servers can also be assisted by corrupt clients in computing their proofs.
Then, the servers in the coalition have no information about their proofs for time frame t, even if they are helped by the corrupt clients in D. Formally, for any B ' that The authors of [19] proved several lower bounds on the communication complexity of metering schemes realizing monotone access structures.
A secret sharing scheme is a method by which a dealer shares a secret among a set C of parties, by distributing some information to each party, in such a way that only qualified subsets of parties, pooling together their information, can reconstruct the secret; but subsets of parties that are not enabled to recover the secret have absolutely no information about it.
Observe that log ae log ae Therefore, the bound given in Theorem 3.3 is attained if \Sigma has optimal information rate, that is, if The amount of information that a client sends to a server during a visit is log jC t Observe that log jC t log jP t Therefore, the bound given in Theorem 3.2 is attained if \Sigma has optimal information rate, that is, if 5 Some Examples Optimal metering schemes can be constructed for any access structure A such that a LSSS with optimal information rate is known for A.
