Further, the work of Bellantoni and Cook [3] and Report date: 24 Oct. 2000 Leivant [6] provides primitive recursive schemes for dening FP with no explicit bounds of any rather controlling the primitive recursion by semantically-inspired, syntactically implemented tiering notions.
This especially becomes clear if we insist upon some notion of time-bounded machines which may not halt on some inputs.
Thus not only does the approach of implicit computational complexity provide a straightforward way to generalize polynomial-time computable functions to a broader class that ought to correspond to the partial recursive functions, it in fact gives a resource-free characterization of a previously- dened class that asserts to play the same role, thus justifying the naturality of (what turns out to be) the single class considered.
The binary successors are s i and the binary predecessor is given by A partial multifunction (pmf ) is a Alternatively, ' can be viewed as a relation on N k+1 satisfying the constraint that for all  x, fy j hx; yi 2 'g is nite.
We will freely make use of polynomial-time computable predicates in the denitions of our func- tions; in such cases, we understand that formally we are referring to their characteristic functions, Specically, in a minimization of the form z < (x):P (x; z), we mean z Definition A pmf ' is polynomially-bounded (poly-bounded) if there is a polynomial p such that for all y, then jyj  p(jxj).
The only reason we might not have '(x) 7! y is that there could be a much shorter accepting computation path with output dierent than y; the weak minimization operator would then \reject" w and \pick up" this shorter path instead.
In particular, when a function is dened by recurrence as the denition only makes sense when g is dened no matter what its third argument is|in other words, the denition assumes the totality of f , and hence the domain of denition, and so this argument must be of tier 0.
Properly developing a notion of higher-type computability along these lines may help to clarify some of the dicult issues of higher-type feasibility by providing an appropriate \universe" in which to consider higher-type complexity.
