If the target is point t, the signal density near point t is, by routine calculation, approximately me (s t)m where s  t denotes the signal, and 0 for s > t. We may stretch the axis by factor m, such that the signal density is approximately e s t for s  t, and 0 for s > t. For large enough m we may even forget about the nite interval, as the signal density at remote s is negligible, and take e s t as the exact signal density.
Our interpretation of this fact is that an on-line player who aims at minimizing ER has a long-run view, maybe because she must permanently solve problems of this type, whereas for an on-line player faced with a single instance of a problem, it is more natural to use ER as performance measure.
In order to get in easier, we will rst consider simple models where the jobs have target probabilities turn out that the main results carry over to the Bayesian model and to the AIRS setting where the on-line player gets a random signal correlated to the adversarial target.
Recall the signal density function e s t for s  t, and 0 for s > t. For the sake of simplicity we will not distinguish signals between the same consecutive targets candidates, that is, we only use n signals corresponding to the n 1 intervals between objects (genes) together with the innite leftmost interval.
The problem versions considered in the present paper are static in that all jobs are released in the beginning, and no further jobs appear over time, unlike most of the usual \on-line" problems.
To avoid technicalities we restrict our presentation to the case of nite sets of targets and signals, although extensions are possible.
Thus, in an optimal solution, the x(tjs) for any xed s are proportional to weighted p(sjt), where the weights w t depend on the target only, in other words, they are equal for all signals.
The weights must satisfy 1. Using the introduced notion, the competitive ratio is s r Let us minimize the inner product for any xed s, for the moment ignoring the demand that the weights have to be independent of s.
