wet proofed catalyst being a hydrophobic porous matrix with catalylically active platinum plus at least one of chromium are titanium dispersed in the matrix .
studies were carried out to investigate whether the pt content of conventional wetproofed isotope exchange catalyst could be reduced or eliminated by promoting the catalytic properties of pt with other additive metals or replacing the pt with other less costly metals . a number of pt - based bimetallic formulations were tested . the percentage loading of each metal was varied in the test samples to investigate the effects of the actual amount and the ratio of the different metals on the substrate . the catalyst samples were subjected to different tests to determine the activities of the catalysts . the conditions of testing ranged in temperature and pressure under vapour - phase or trickle - bed mode . unless otherwise stated , carbon black was used as the substrate for all catalysts . teflon ® 30 suspension from e . i . du pont de nemours was used for wetproofing the catalyst . with a number of exceptions , all catalyst powders comprising pt were prepared using a standard method of precipitation of pt using sodium platinum sulfite as generally described in u . s . pat . no . 4 , 082 , 699 petrow et al . ( the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference ). platinum oxide was precipitated onto the powder support by reacting na 6 pt ( so 3 ) 4 prepared from chloroplatinic acid as described in u . s . pat . no . 4 , 082 , 699 , with hydrogen peroxide and then the platinum oxide was reduced to platinum metal . most of the bimetallic catalyst powders were prepared using variations of the standard precipitation procedure . the standard precipitation procedure was used to make catalyst powders with pt as the sole metal component . the bimetallic precipitation procedure is similar to the standard precipitation procedure with the only difference being the addition and dissolution of an additional metal salt ( s ) to the platinum solution and the use of extra hydrogen peroxide . pt — cr catalysts were prepared in the same manner as the standard method for pt with co - precipitation of sodium platinum sulfite ( na 6 pt ( so 3 ) 4 ) and chromium ( iii ) nitrate ( cr ( no 3 ) 3 . for pt — ti catalysts , ticl 4 was substituted for cr ( no 3 ) 3 . the catalysts for testing were prepared by loading onto a carrier such as a stainless screen with teflon ® 30 suspension from e . i . du pont de nemours in the manner as described in u . s . pat . no . 4 , 143 , 123 , the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference . all of the catalyst powders were sprayed with teflon ® in a 1 : 1 ratio onto stainless steel screens . for vapour - phase testing , catalyst powders were sprayed onto a single 100 - mm wide by 320 - mm long piece of screen . all of the catalysts for trickle bed k y a tests were sprayed onto 250 - mm wide by 900 - mm long pieces . process for making a 5 % pt + 2 % ti on carbon xc - 72r catalyst a small batch of the bimetallic catalyst was prepared from 25 g of xc - 72r carbon . about 4 . 6 g of na 6 pt ( so 3 ) 4 and 2 . 1 g of ticl 4 using the procedure outlined in u . s . pat . no . 4 , 082 , 699 . this catalyst powder was then mixed with teflon ® 30 in a 1 : 1 ratio and coated onto a 28 mesh stainless steel screen with 0 . 0075 - inch wire diameter in the manner described in u . s . pat . no . 4 , 143 , 123 . process for making a 5 % pt + 2 % cr on carbon xc - 72r catalyst a small batch of catalyst powder was prepared from 25 g of xc - 72r carbon , about 4 . 7 g of na 6 pt ( so 3 ) 4 , and about 10 . 7 g of chromium nitrate nanohydrate , cr ( no 3 ) 3 . 9h 2 o , using the procedure outlined in u . s . pat . no . 4 , 082 , 699 . this catalyst powder was mixed with teflon ® 30 in a 1 : 1 ratio and coated onto a 28 mesh stainless steel screen with 0 . 0075 - inch wire diameter in the manner described in u . s . pat . no . 4 , 143 , 123 . a number of the catalyst test samples [ 5 % pt + 2 % au , 7 % pt + 3 % pd and 5 % ni + 5 % pt on xc - 72r ] used for comparison purposes were prepared by conventional co - impregnation methods rather than co - precipitation . most of the ni catalysts with or without cr were prepared using nicl 2 or ni ( no 3 ) 2 and cr ( no 3 ) 3 by precipitating with sodium carbonate on different supports such as carbon or silicalite . exceptions were 5 % ni on carbon ( by impregnation ), 15 % ni + 0 . 1 % pd on xc - 72r ( by chemical deposition ), 8 % ni + 2 % cr + 0 . 1 % pd on xc - 72r ( by sequential precipitation in the order : co - precipitation of ni + cr then precipitation of pd ). a number of different test facilities were used to determine the activities of the catalysts prepared in this work . the conditions of testing ranged in temperature and pressure under vapour - phase ( h 2 / h 2 o vapour ) or trickle - bed mode ( h 2 / h 2 o vapour / h 2 o liquid ). this is a vapour phase reactor system with internal gas circulation to reduce external mass - transfer resistance . catalysts were tested at a constant pressure of 2000 kpa ( abs ) and at temperatures ranging from 68 to 155 ° c . the relative humidity was raised to a maximum value of 84 % while the vapour content was increased to a maximum of 9 . 0 %. the actual weight of the catalyst screen was maintained at about 0 . 65 g . table 1 reports the catalytic activities for pt catalysts promoted by either cr or ti . in table 1 ( and table 2 below ) the results for a base catalyst comprising 10 % pt on vulcan xc - 72 ™ carbon black are presented for comparison purposes . the catalytic rate constants in table 1 are given in the units of mol d · s − 1 · m − 3 , where the volume corresponds to the catalyst module structural volume . hence , comparison of the performance of the different catalysts can be carried out in a straightforward way by comparing these activities and the metal loadings . for example , if a catalyst made with 5 % pt and a certain loading of another metal shows similar activity to the base catalyst , then 50 % savings in the pt cost is achieved with the new catalyst , assuming that the cost of the other metal is negligible ( which is generally the case ). as seen from table 1 , compared with the base 10 % pt on xc - 72r catalyst , the bimetallic catalysts ( pt in combination with ti or cr on xc - 72r ) had similar or higher activities at most conditions . since , all the bimetallic catalysts in table 1 had lower than 10 % pt , their pt content in a unit volume of bed will be correspondingly lower . for example , the 2 % pt + 5 % ti catalyst has only approximately 0 . 24 kg · m − 3 of pt compared to the 10 % pt catalyst with say 1 . 2 kg · m − 3 of pt — a considerable saving in the cost of pt . for a given loading of pt , generally , the pt — ti catalysts appear to be more active than pt — cr catalysts as seen with 8 % pt + 2 % ti versus 8 % pt + 2 % cr and 5 % pt + 5 % ti versus 5 % pt + 5 % cr . apart from the cost - savings , the improved wetproofed catalysts experienced a significant increase to their activities as compared with the base 10 % pt catalyst at high temperatures . for example , the catalyst with 8 % pt + 2 % ti on xc - 72r is as active as the base catalyst at 68 ° c . and 62 ° c . for reactor and condenser outlet temperatures , respectively . however , at 105 ° c . and 100 ° c . for reactor and condenser outlet temperatures , respectively , the pt — ti catalyst had an activity significantly greater than that of the base catalyst . the catalyst containing 2 % pt - 5 % ti on xc - 72 also had a similar effect . though the results at 105 ° c . reactor temperature show that the bimetallic catalysts may be somewhat more strongly dependent on relative humidity or vapour content compared to the base catalyst , the results at 155 ° c . reactor temperature do not confirm this observation . during the testing of these catalysts , it was noticed that the bimetallic catalysts took considerably longer period to steady out , during which time the activity of the catalyst continued to increase . the base catalyst , on the other hand , showed an increase first followed by a somewhat steady activity and then a slow decrease . in these tests it was also noticed that the bimetallic catalysts appeared to show a prolonged activity increase with time - on - stream at higher relative humidities . this was assumed to be indicative of a strong dependence of activity on the relative humidity . such dependence is considered to be advantageous in the trickle - bed environment of isotope exchange application . table 2 contains the results for catalytic activities of pt catalysts promoted by zr or v for purposes of comparison . as can be seen from table 2 , neither zr nor v showed any obvious promoting effects at the conditions of the tests in the reactor . a significant reduction in activity occurred when these metals were present with pt in the catalyst compared to the base catalyst . a comparison of the results for catalysts in table 2 with those in table 1 containing similar loadings of pt shows that zr and v were inferior to cr or ti as catalyst promoters . the test results for various compositions are reported in table 3 . as can be seen from the results in table 3 , none of the ni containing catalysts showed any significant activity in the high pressure / high temperature vapour - phase reactor tests . even the tests at a relatively high temperature of 200 ° c . did not activate the ni to yield a desirable activity . this is a nominally 50 - mm diameter trickle - bed reactor test facility operated at ambient pressure and temperatures up to 80 ° c . typical long term test results are shown in fig1 for 5 % pt and 5 % pt + 2 % ti catalysts at 80 ° c . and 118 kpa ( abs ). the tests were done at a water flux of 100 mol · m − 2 · s − 1 and hydrogen flux of 50 mol · m − 2 s − 1 . a few sets of σk y a values are given in table 4 for discussion in conjunction with the results presented in fig1 . as can be seen from table 4 , on increasing the test temperature from 25 to 80 ° c ., the activity increased more steeply for the bimetallic pt — cr and pt — ti catalysts compared to the base pt catalyst . though more data is required for a complete understanding of the temperature effect on activity for these catalysts , it may be generalized from the results shown in table 4 that the bimetallic catalysts show a somewhat stronger dependence on temperature compared to the base pt catalyst . the test results shown in fig1 provide some indications that there may be some differences in the deactivation profiles of ti catalysts compared with the base pt catalyst over the test period . while the base catalyst continued to deactivate gradually over the one month period , the bimetallic catalyst steadied out within this period . at the end of the tests , the bimetallic catalyst had an activity of about 830 mol · m − 3 · s − 1 while the base catalyst had a lower activity of 630 mol · m − 3 · s − 1 , revealing superior performance achieved by adding the secondary metal . nominally 100 - mm diameter by 250 - mm long catalyst modules were tested at temperatures up to 150 ° c . and pressures up to 2500 kpa ( g ) in this facility . the results obtained on the 8 % pt + 2 % cr and 5 % pt + 5 % cr catalysts were compared with the base catalyst . each catalyst module tested was 100 - mm diameter by 250 - mm long , consisting of a catalyst layer thickness approximately equivalent to the base catalyst loading of 1 . 2 g · l − 1 . this , for example , would translate into a pt loading of 0 . 6 g · l − 1 ; for the 5 % pt + 5 % cr catalyst . the tests results showed that the pt — cr catalysts performed well . in general , at temperatures in the range of about 50 to 150 ° c ., the activity of the catalysts matched the performance of the base catalyst . this is surprising since the bimetallic catalysts contained less pt in the module than the base catalyst . this is especially surprising of the 5 % pt + 5 % cr catalyst which contained only half the pt loading normally present in the base catalyst . the 8 % pt + 2 % cr containing bimetallic catalyst had about 1 . 0 g · l − 1 of pt . the 8 % pt + 2 % cr and 5 % pt + 5 % cr catalysts also did not show any appreciable deactivation over a 30 day period of testing and in fact showed some modest increase in activity over the test period . moreover , these bimetallic catalysts appeared to show more stable activity than the base catalyst . as is evident from the above test results , given the cost reduction realized through the substitution of platinum with an inexpensive alternative , the bimetallic catalysts , pt — cr and pt — ti , are an improvement over the base 10 % pt catalyst at temperatures greater than 60 ° c . and at ambient and higher pressures . the amount of platinum can be varied depending on the activity / cost / stability considerations . catalysts having less than 10 % pt by weight based on the total weight of the support and the deposited metals will show cost improvements over base 10 % pt catalyst . catalysts can also be prepared in accordance with the present invention having a base 10 % pt loading with a cr or ti promoter to improve performance or stability as compared to the monometallic catalyst . catalysts in accordance with the present invention can advantageously have platinum in an amount of from about 2 % to about 8 % and the amount of cr or ti from about 1 % to 5 % by weight based on the total weight of the support and the deposited metals and can advantageously have a weight ratio of platinum to cr or ti in the range of 5 : 1 to 2 : 5 . the combined amount of platinum and cr or ti can advantageously be about 10 % by weight based on the total weight of the support and deposited metals . although the above tests used carbon black as the catalyst support , the invention is not so limited and suitable supports other than carbon black may be used . while the catalysts in accordance with the present invention are particularly suitable for use in heavy water production , they can also be used in other hydrogen isotope exchange processes including heavy water upgrading and detritiation applications . thus , the catalysts in accordance with the present invention can be used for the separation of tritium from hydrogen or deuterium . other modifications can also be made without departing from the scope of the invention .
