the invention relates to a drive system for moving walkways and stairs by means of horizontal drive chains , having a drive actuation mechanism and drive chains responsible for causing the movement of the plates of the walkway or steps of the stairs . the drive chains and the pallets or steps have direct mutual engagement devices which are opposite and coupled to one another along a straight section of the path of the belt or stairs . the devices have deformable rollers which are assembled in the links of the drive chain and engage in complementary cavities that the plates or links have at the back part .
a detailed description of a drive system for a moving walkway formed according to the invention will be made below , and it must be understood that the described concepts are equally applicable to moving stairs and other conveyor systems . fig1 and 2 show a drive system for a moving walkway including two horizontal drive chains , with reference number 1 , driven by means of a motor 2 and a worm - gear type planar reducer 3 . the output shaft of the reducer 3 moves in each case the gear wheel 4 which in turn drives the horizontal drive chains 1 . these chains carry deformable rollers 5 engaging with opposing housings that the plates 6 of the moving walkway have on the rear surface . the horizontal chains 1 further include elements for driving the handrail 7 , as will be described below . fig2 and 3 show how the chain has lower rollers 8 moving on a guide 9 for supporting the movement of said chain . fig4 and 5 show plan and perspective views of a horizontal drive chain horizontal for the drive system of the invention . the chain includes the rollers 5 , formed from elastically deformable material and also carries arms 10 , aimed in the same direction as the rollers 5 and which will be useful as a drive means for the handrail , as will be described below . in the embodiment shown in fig4 and 5 , the chain 1 has lower rollers 8 ′ which are coupled on a guide 9 ′, equivalent to the rollers 8 and guide 9 of fig3 , to support and guide the movement of the chain 1 . fig6 shows a perspective view of one of the links 11 of the chains 1 with the elastically deformable rollers 5 and the arms 10 , which can be provided with a coating 12 based on materials selected from deformable and resilient materials , the handrail 7 being supported against such coating for its drive by friction , as shown in fig1 . the rollers 5 engage in complementary cavities that the plates 6 of the walkway have at their back part when said plates run in coincidence with the section occupied by the drive chains 1 , as will be explained with reference to fig7 to 10 . the drive chains 1 will be arranged such that the plates of the walkway are opposite to said chains along at least one straight section of the path of the belt , as has been shown in fig1 to 3 . as can be seen in fig7 and 8 , when the plates 6 of the walkway run in coincidence with the drive chains 1 , the rollers 5 are coupled in complementary cavities that the plates 6 have at their back part , mutually engaging to be useful as a drive means for said plates . as can be seen in fig8 , the rollers 5 can be retractable , including a rod 14 which is assembled and can move axially on a bushing 15 of the chains 1 . the rod 14 projects at the lower part and has assembled therein a wheel 16 supported on a guide 17 acting as a cam for moving the rod 14 in an upward direction until coupling it with the cavity 13 of the plates 6 , when such plates run above the rollers 5 . fig9 shows one of the rollers 5 coupled in the cavity 13 of one of the plates 6 , which plates can be provided with means 19 of support on longitudinal guides 20 for their movement . as has been indicated above , the different plates of the walkway can be independent , moving by thrust from the plates 6 engaged with the drive chain 1 , or they can linked to one another by means of shafts 21 perpendicular to the direction of movement of the walkway . fig1 shows a special side arrangement of the wheels 16 at the lower end of the rod 15 of the rollers 5 , which wheels are housed along a guide 17 , in the form of a channel , which will control the movement of the rod 15 both in the upward and in the downward direction , in order to pass it to a lower inoperative position , as is indicated with reference number 5 ′ in fig1 , and an upper or active position , which is indicated with reference number 5 ″ in the same figure , in which it is coupled in the lower cavity 13 of the plates 6 . fig1 also shows the arms 10 carrying the upper coating 12 against which the handrail 7 will be supported for its drive . fig1 also shows one of the guides 20 which will drive and support the plates 6 of the walkway . fig1 and 12 show a horizontal arrangement of the drive chains 1 , with rollers 5 of the drive chains coupled to plates 6 of the walkway and with the handrail 7 supported on the coating 12 of the arms 10 , as can be better seen in fig1 corresponding to detail a of fig1 . as shown in fig1 and 14 , the drive chains can also run in an inclined position , in which case the drive elements of the handrail 7 will be located at the lower part , as can be seen in fig1 . the drive chains 1 have a certain degree of inclination with respect to the cross - section of the walkway . fig1 shows the drive of the moving walkway by horizontal drive chains 1 by means of a linear motor . the chain is formed by a plurality of carriages 23 containing permanent magnets running through the fed part 24 . the carriages 23 carry rollers 5 which will drive the plates 6 , as well as the arms 10 which will drive the handrail 7 . fig1 and 18 show the drive of the moving walkway by horizontal drive chains 1 by means of a permanent magnet synchronous motor 25 with a high torque at low speeds , placed such that it drives the wheels 4 , which in turn move the horizontal chains 1 responsible for moving the conveyor plates 6 , in the already described manner . fig1 shows the drive by horizontal drive chains 1 by means of a motor 2 , as in the case of fig1 , reducer 26 and worm or worms 27 placed in a position to the walkway . the worm or worms 27 engage on actual bushings of the drive chains , and can consist of the same bushings 15 in which the rods 14 of the rollers 5 are assembled , as can be seen in fig1 , or of other elements of the chain arranged for the mentioned purpose . as in the previous cases , these chains carry deformable rollers 5 and the arms 10 for driving the handrail 7 . finally , fig2 shows the drive by horizontal drive chains 1 by means of two motors 2 and reducers 26 and worm or worms 27 ′ placed in a position longitudinal to the walkway . as in the previous case , the worm or worms 27 ′ engage on the actual bushings of the chain .
