an ophthalmic illuminator is provided that includes a plurality of color sources , each color source producing a light of a corresponding color ; a combiner for combining the light from the color sources to produced a combined light ; at least one optical fiber configured to receive the combined light and propagate the received combined light towards a distal end of the ophthalmic illuminator ; and a controller configured to control an intensity for each of the color sources responsive to a sampling of a spectral content for the combined light .
to provide spectral output selectivity and brightness flexibility , a plurality of color light sources are selectively combined to produce an illuminating light having a desired spectral output . in this fashion , a clinician may thus not only alter the spectral output for the illumination but also vary ( or keep constant ) the resulting luminous flux despite the spectral augmentation . turning now to the drawings , fig1 illustrates a spectrally - adjustable ophthalmic illuminator probe 100 . illuminator 100 includes a red led source 105 , a blue led source 110 and a green led source 115 . each led associates with a corresponding collimating lens . thus , red light from red ( r ) led source 105 is collimated through a lens 120 , blue light from blue ( b ) led source 110 is collimated through a lens 125 , and green light from green ( g ) led source 115 is collimated through a lens 130 . the resulting collimated light beams are received at a combiner 135 to produce a combined light beam 140 . combiner 135 may comprise a phillips prism , a dichroic cube , or other suitable optical combiner . because of the rgb contribution from the sources , combined light beam 140 may nominally be a white light beam . to provide spectral variability in addition to white light illumination , the radiant flux ( intensity ) for each light source may be tuned as desired . for example , a variable current amplifier 145 may vary the radiant flux produced by red led source 105 , a variable current amplifier 150 may vary the radiant flux from blue led source 110 , and a variable current amplifier 155 may vary the radian flux for green led source 115 . other techniques may also be used to vary or tune the light intensity from each source . for example , constant power sources may drive the leds through pulse width modulators . a controller 160 such as a microprocessor or microcontroller controls the radiant flux from each light source accordingly . thus , for illuminator 100 , controller 160 controls the amount of gain applied by each current amplifier . in one embodiment , controller 160 automatically adjusts the gain responsive to feedback as sensed through an optical sampler 165 that samples combined beam 140 . for example , optical sampler 165 may comprise a beam splitter or a folding mirror to split off a relatively small portion of the combined beam 140 as a sampled beam 170 . to analyze the spectral content of the sampled beam 170 ( and thus of combined beam 140 ), controller receives data from a spectroradiometer 190 that receives sampled beam 170 . the remaining unsampled portion of combined beam 140 is received by a condensing optic lens 180 so as to couple into an optic fiber 185 ( or optic fiber bundle ). fiber 185 may thus be the illumination source in ophthalmic instruments such as an ophthalmic microscope , slit lamps , indirect ophthalmoscopes , and fiber endo - illuminators . controller 160 is also responsive to user input such that a physician may manually command the appropriate gains so as to achieve the desired spectral content for combined beam 140 . in that regard , the general desire for white vitreoretinal illumination flows from the phenomenon of color rendering , which is the ability of the illuminating light to render the appearance of various colors as they should appear to the human observer . to help indicate how colors will appear under spectrally - different light sources , a color rendering index ( cri ) has been derived as known in the optic arts . in general , the more spectrally broadband a source is , the higher its cri value will be . white light illumination thus has a high cri value . but as the illumination takes on color , the cri index will drop . for example , illumination at wavelengths only of 510 nm in wavelength or longer will have a relatively low cri . as will be discussed further herein , controller 160 may automatically control the cri by adjusting the radiant flux from each source to achieve a desired chromaticity value as defined by , for example , the international commission on illumination ( cie ) 1931 color space . the automatic control provided by controller 160 in response to sensing the spectral content of the combined light advantageously minimizes or eliminates aphakic hazard in certain embodiments . in that regard , stringent guidelines on total aphakic exposure such as 10 j / cm 2 may be satisfied , thereby increasing patient safety . for controller 160 to properly calculate the total aphakic irradiance , a correlation between the irradiance at the retina and the radiant flux measured by spectroradiometer 190 of sampled beam 170 is useful . the irradiance on the retina depends upon a number of factors such as the separation between an emitting distal end of a probe holding fiber 185 and the retina . as the distal end of the probe moves closer to the retina , the more intense will be the retinal irradiance will increase . a typical separation between the probe and the retina for conventional endo - illuminators is 5 to 15 mm . however , for a laser probe such as used in retinal photocoagulation therapy , the separation may be in the range of 2 to 4 mm . another factor affecting time - averaged retinal irradiance is whether the illumination probe is pointed at the same area of the retina as opposed to sequentially moving the illumination to different portions of the retina . other factors include the spread angle of the emitted light beam , the incident angle for the emitted light beam onto the retina , and the detailed structure and physical condition of the retina as well as obscuring effects of other tissues such as vitreous and epiretinal membranes . to assist controller 160 in making an a priori estimate of the expected irradiance , illumination probe 100 may include an rfid tag 195 so that an rfid interrogator ( not illustrated ) may read associated rfid data from tag 195 and provide the data to controller 160 . for example , an estimate of expected conditions and beam spread angle associated with a given probe is loaded onto tag 195 so that controller 160 can correlate between spectral power measurements of sampled beam 170 and a corresponding irradiance at the retina . spectroradiometer 190 may sample the entire visible spectrum for sampled beam 170 or merely sample the spectral power at selected wavelengths having the expected predominant optical energy . having determined some suitable radiometric measure ( denoted as r ) such as radiometric flux or irradiance at the sampled wavelengths , controller 160 may thus construct a corresponding spectral radiometric function r ′( λ ). e . g . watts / nm . an accurate measure of the aphakic hazard requires a translation of such a radiometric quantity to an aphakic radiometric quantity such as aphakic irradiance or aphakic radiometric power . to calculate an aphakic radiometric quantity , controller 160 retrieves the aphakic hazard function a ( λ ) as illustrated in fig2 from a memory 161 . controller 160 then numerically integrates according to the following equation : where r aph is an aphakically weighted radiometric quantity as determined by the type of radiometric quantity ( radiometric flux , irradiance , etc .) used to establish r ′( λ ). controller 160 may then determine the total aphakic exposure over the procedure time by multiplying r aph by the retinal illumination duration . should controller 160 determine that the aphakic exposure has exceeded some maximum threshold such as 10 j / cm 2 , controller 160 may then reduce or eliminate the emission from any color light source having wavelengths less than 510 nm . another consideration besides the aphakic hazard that controller 160 may address is contrast , which is typically defined as the luminance ratio between the brightest and dimmest portions of the retinal image . whether a particular retinal tissue reflects strongly or weakly depends on its reflectance spectrum multiplied by the illumination spectrum as integrated over the visible wavelengths . if a particular retinal tissue is highly absorptive over a spectral region corresponding to one of the color sources but a different retinal tissue is highly reflective at that same wavelength , controller 160 could increase the contrast between the two retinal tissues by suppressing the remaining color sources . alternatively , there may be high contrast in the presence of white light ( full spectrum ) illumination such that controller 160 tunes the color sources to effect white light illumination . conversely , low contrast may be achieved with single color source illumination . depending upon the circumstances of a particular therapy , either contrast enhancement or suppression may be desirable . the degree of suppression or enhancement depends upon the spectral behavior for the various light sources and the spectral reflectance characteristics of the tissue being observed . as seen in fig3 , which illustrates the spectra for various commercially - available led color sources , these sources typically have relatively narrow spectral bandwidths . such narrowband emission enhances the ability to increase or suppress contrast as desired by controller 160 . to achieve a particular chromaticity , controller 160 may be configured to measure the chromaticity coordinates for the current illumination . in that regard , memory 161 may store cie tristimulus functions z ( λ ), y ( λ ), and x ( λ ) as illustrated in fig4 . controller 160 may then retrieve these functions and determine the corresponding cie primaries x , y , and z by numerically integrating the following equations : where r ′( ) is the spectral radiometric function discussed above . given the cie primaries , controller 160 may then calculate the x and y cie chromaticity coordinates according to the following equations : controller 160 may thus monitor the chromaticity values and tune the various color source intensities accordingly to achieve a desired effect . for example , controller 160 may adjust color rendering or contrast in this fashion . although illuminator 100 has been discussed with regard to three independent color sources , it will be appreciated that white light illumination can be achieved with just two sources . conversely , rather than just use a rgb combination as discussed above , a greater number of color channels may used such as four , five , or more color channels may be implemented . in addition , the spectral content of the combined light may be characterized using a color camera instead of a spectroradiometer . embodiments described above illustrate but do not limit the invention . it should also be understood that numerous modifications and variations are possible in accordance with the principles of the present invention . accordingly , the scope of the invention is defined only by the following claims .
