In a wide ranging interview with CNN 's    State of the Union , ' Cheney said the harsh interrogations of suspects and the use of warrantless electronic surveillance were    absolutely essential ' to get information to prevent more attacks like the 2001 suicide hijackings that targeted New York and Washington .
Since taking office in January , Obama has announced plans to close the U.S. prison camp at Guantanamo Bay , Cuba , to halt the military trials of suspected terrorists there , and to make CIA officers follow the Army field manual 's rules on interrogations .
Cheney said the administration appears to be returning to the pre 2001 model of treating terrorism as a law enforcement issue , rather than a military problem .
When you go back to the law enforcement mode , which I sense is what they 're doing , closing Guantanamo and so forth ... they are very much giving up that center of attention and focus that 's required , that concept of military threat that is essential if you 're going to successfully defend the nation against further attacks , ' he said .
But Cheney said he and Bush had to spend money to deal with the September 11 , 2001 attacks , the resulting war in Afghanistan , the disaster of 2005 's Hurricane Katrina , and the costly and unpopular war in Iraq , now nearly six years old .
We have succeeded in creating in the heart of the Middle East a democratically governed Iraq , and that is a big deal , and it is , in fact , what we set out to do . ' 
But Sestak said the administration was too slow to react to the problems it faced in Iraq and let the conflict overshadow the    whole fabric ' of U.S. national security .
He said Bush left former Cheney aide Lewis    Scooter ' Libby    sort of hanging in the wind ' by refusing to issue Libby a pardon before leaving office .
He would disclose no details of his efforts to lobby the president on Libby 's behalf , saying they would be    best left to history . ' 
And Cheney said he argued against the administration 's policy on North Korea , which tested a nuclear weapon in 2006 .
