Britain 's ambassador to the United States , Peter Westmacott , told CNN on Sunday that British officials were close to identifying the ISIS militant who beheaded Foley , an American journalist captured in Syria in 2012 .
Last week , Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel and Joint Chiefs Chairman Gen. Martin Dempsey said that taking on ISIS in Syria was the only way to defeat the Sunni jihadists .
Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said Monday . 
CNN National Security Analyst Peter Bergen said it will be difficult to defeat ISIS without ground forces , something Obama clearly opposes .
So if you intervene , you may be helping Iran and Hezbollah and  LRB  Syrian President Bashar al Assad 's  RRB  regime . ' 
Obama already sent military advisers to Iraq and launched air strikes to protect them and minority groups from ISIS fighters rampaging through the country 's north .
Obama wants al Assad out of power , but now the Syrian leader engaged in a civil war against a U.S. backed opposition is offering to help him take on ISIS . 
Foreign Minister Walid Moallem said Monday his government would accept support from the United States and others working under the U.N. umbrella to fight    terrorists '    a code word for the group that calls itself the Islamic State and seeks to establish a caliphate across a Sunni dominated swath of the the Middle East .
Moallem , however , warned against any unilateral action or strikes in Syrian territory without its permission , saying    any effort to fight terrorism should be done in coordination ' with the    Syrian government . ' 
Last week , Atlantic Council senior fellow and Syria expert Frederic Hof said a U.S. rescue mission for Foley earlier this year that went into Syria but failed to find him established the precedent for military action across the Iraq border , superseding any legal considerations such as being asked by the host government to enter .
The Syrian offer to help fight ISIS comes after al Assad 's government enabled the group to expand amid the Syrian civil war .
Bank robbery , kidnapping , smuggling , selling oil on the black market    ISIS gets money to fund and expand its organization in all kinds of ways .
