the attack on the world trade center had the potential to overwhelm new york 's health services .
initial estimates spoke of 10,000 people in each of the two towers , all of them either killed or injured .
local hospitals prepared for the worst , and in the first few hours there were hundreds of patients with crush injuries and burns .
horror and sadness has now been replaced by anger , fear , and the determination to be better prepared next time .
this determination not only exists in politics but also in health care , and as with all attempts to enforce change there needs to be a period of collecting opinions and data . in this issue of critical care
, there is a series of nine articles offering varied perspectives of the events of 11 september 2001 .
louis cook is an advanced life support coordinator with the fire department of new york .
on page 301 , he describes how the fire department of new york took charge , set up command and control , and then had to evacuate , replace lost personnel , and resume control after the tower collapsed . " this was a monumental task " , writes cook , " given the psychological impact of the event " .
the command and control center was also staffed by the new york police department and , on page 304 , the deputy chief surgeon , charles martinez , describes his experiences , including the part he played in helping police to ensure surrounding buildings were not " used by terrorists to launch a subsequent attack ... with the specific aim of harming the rescue effort " .
the article , co - authored by dario gonzalez , medical director for clinical affairs of the fire department of new york , concludes that , while the incident was dramatic , the lessons to be learnt " are the same as those from previous disasters " .
on page 307 , j david roccaforte of bellevue hospital , only 2.5 miles ( 4 km ) from the world trade center , tells us how they reacted  from how they triaged " as well as could be expected " to how it was " difficult to anticipate needs " .
donald b chalfin , an attending intensivist at maimonides medical center , new york , offers on page 310 his eye witness observations of the attack as he sat in the city 's traffic . "
like so many other physicians ... " he writes , " i was paralyzed knowing that i was unable to give help ... " .
on page 312 , david crippen draws on his experience of the 1988 earthquake in armenia to suggest that , while specialized search and rescue teams may be useful , " a more cost - effective approach [ would be ] to teach life supporting first aid to the general public " . but whoever intervenes , whether it be medical personnel or the general public , there is potential psychological sequela  post - traumatic stress disorder .
jeffrey hammond and jill brooks state , on page 315 , that treating post - traumatic stress disorder has " only a marginal effect " , and that early intervention , in the form of critical incident stress management , can " limit the establishment of maladaptive and disruptive cognitive or behavioral patterns " , both in health personnel and victims .
ron simon and sheldon teperman of the jacobi medical center , new york , were part of the hospital 's disaster committee and offer some straight - talking criticism of the city 's reaction . "
the lack of communication probably resulted in more problems than all other factors combined " , they say , going on to suggest that " time , effort , and resources were wasted ... because of lack of direction and information " ( page 318 ) . at the time of writing ,
on page 321 , vlad kvetan suggests that , while new york absorbed the blow of the world trade center attack well , " major stress was placed on ... biohazard resources " .
he suggests that because the internet has disseminated sophisticated information about bioterrorism , comprehensive guidelines on managing all kinds of outbreaks , from anthrax to smallpox , are needed .
finally , in the concluding article on page 323 , kenneth mattox questions to what extent we are prepared , or can be prepared , for the unexpected , and whether the bureaucrats behind health care have the ability to make those preparations .
the frameworks for multifaceted care required during disasters can only be created , he points out , " by leaving egos and personal agendas at the front door and working for a common benefit " .
we hope this 10-part series of articles in critical care facilitates the opinion and data collecting that is required before changes in disaster preparedness can be enforced .
the series is dedicated to the first responders  fire , police , and medical personnel  who attended the world trade center disaster of 11 september 2001 .
they did not hesitate to place themselves in harm 's way to rescue the innocent , and without their efforts many more would have perished .
the authors acknowledge david crippen 's assistance in the creation of this 10-part review series . this article , and the series it is part of ,
is dedicated to the first responders  fire , police and medical personnel  who attended the world trade center disaster of 11 september 2001 .
they did not hesitate to place themselves in harm 's way to rescue the innocent , and without their efforts many more would have perished .
