referring initially to fig1 of the drawings , in a preferred embodiment the tree climbing support of this invention is generally illustrated by reference numeral 1 .
the tree climbing support 1 includes a body support 2 which is characterized by a generally rectangular shaped body support frame 3 , provided with a top engaging member 4 , which is braced by an engaging member brace 45 and is constructed of square metal stock , for engaging the tree 40 .
a top support brace 6 is spaced from the top engaging member 4 by a pair of parallel top support legs 5 and the top support legs 5 are shaped to define a curved top support extension 5a .
seat mesh 7 , which is constructed of expanded metal or other desired material , spans a portion of the top support legs 5 and the top support extension 5a to support the hunter when the tree climbing support 1 is deployed on a tree 40 .
a pair of tubular top yoke sleeves 18 are welded or otherwise secured at one end to the top support legs 5 and are supported in fixed , angular relationship with respect to the top support leg 5 by a pair of top yoke sleeve braces 21 , as illustrated .
this support is facilitated by a generally v shaped top yoke blade 16 , which is provided with a pair of top yoke blades spikes 17 that extend rearwardly toward the top spikes 12 and are designed to register with the ends of the bottom yoke legs 32 when the tree climbing support 1 is oriented in carrying configuration , as herein after described .
it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the top yoke 14 can be adjusted in telescopic relationship with respect to the top yoke sleeves 18 , in order to accommodate a tree 40 of any diameter which does not exceed the distance between the top yoke legs 15 .
a foot rest mesh 28 of expanded metal or other desired material spans the foot support frame 24 and is supported by a frame brace 44 which spans the side frame members 26 , in order to support the feet for operating the tree climbing support 1 , as hereinafter described .
a pair of tubular bottom yoke sleeves 35 are welded at one end to the end frame member 27 and extend forwardly toward the tree 40 in fixed , angular relationship with respect to the side frame members 26 .
a pair of upward standing foot pegs 30 are also welded or otherwise attached in parallel spaced relationship to the side frame members 26 , in order to prevent the feet of a user from extending forwardly in contact with the tree 40 when the tree climbing support 1 is in use , as hereinafter described .
