with reference to the accompanying drawings , the invention will now be described with regard for the best mode and the preferred embodiment .
in general , the invention is an inflatable vehicle passenger protection apparatus or device known as an air bag , and comprises an inflatable air bag 30 , gas delivery means 10 to inflate the air bag 30 , and a housing 20 to retain the air bag 30 in a folded configuration in the passive state .
such devices are well known in the vehicle art , and many different and adequate mechanisms for sensing a vehicle impact of predetermined force and inflating the air bag 30 in an almost instantaneous manner are known .
upon sensing an impact , pressurized gas contained or created within a reservoir 11 is delivered through a conduit or nozzle means 12 into the air bag 30 , which expands from its housing 20 mounted within the dashboard , steering wheel or side doors of the vehicle .
the inflated air bag 30 fills the void between the person and the vehicle dashboard , steering wheel or door , such that the person & # 39 ; s forward or lateral momentum is halted by impact with the inflated air bag 30 before the dashboard , wheel or door itself can be struck .
the air bag 30 is provided with rapid deflation means 40 , such as vent ports , which allows the gas within the inflated bag to be expelled when struck by the person to soften the impact , thereby deflating the air bag 30 and allowing the person to escape or be removed from the vehicle .
most of the known air bag sensing means and pressurized gas reservoir means are suitable for use with the air bag 30 as described herein , and as such the teachings related to these mechanisms are incorporated by reference .
referring now to fig1 the invention is seen to comprise gas delivery means 10 which includes a source or reservoir of inflation gas 11 and a projection or inflation nozzle , spout or port 12 which extends forward toward the passenger , the forward direction being taken herein to be in the direction toward the person in the vehicle to be restrained in the event of a collision , i .
the gas reservoir or source means 11 is mounted internally to the dashboard , steering wheel or door so as to be hidden .
the pressure of the gas is sufficient to fully inflate the air bag 30 immediately in sufficient time to provide a safe cushion to the person to absorb the force of impact and to prevent contact between the person and the more rigid structural components of the vehicle .
