particularly useful compounds in the practice of the methods of this invention include : compounds of the formula ( 1 ) may form pharmaceutically acceptable salts with acids such as hydrochloric , hydrobromic , sulphuric and phosphoric acids .
compounds of the formula ( 1 ) may form pharmaceutically acceptable sets with metal ions , such as alkali metals for example sodium and potassium , or with an ammonium ion .
the present invention is also a method of treating individuals with neoplastic lesions by administering a pharmacologically effective amount of an enterically coated pharmaceutical composition that includes compounds of this invention .
also , the present invention is a method of inhibiting the growth of neoplastic cells by exposing the cells to an effective amount of compounds of formula i , wherein r 1 , r 2 , r 3 and n are defined as above .
in still another form , the invention is a method of inducing apoptosis in human cells by exposing these cells to an effective amount of compounds of formula i , wherein r 1 , r 2 , r 3 and n are defined as above where such cells are sensitive to these compounds .
additionally , in yet another form , the invention is a method of treating a patient having a disease which would benefit from regulation of apoptosis by treating the patient with an effective amount of compounds of formula i , wherein r 1 through r 3 etc .
examples include dysplasic growths in colonic , breast , bladder or lung tissues , or conditions such as dysplastic nevus syndrome , a precursor to malignant melanoma of the skin .
compounds of this invention may be formulated into pharmaceutical compositions together with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers for oral administration in solid or liquid form , or for rectal or topical administration , although carriers for oral administration are most preferred .
in such solid dosage forms , the carrier can comprise at least one inert diluent such as sucrose , lactose or starch .
carriers such as tablets , pills and granules can be prepared with enteric coatings on the surfaces of the tablets , pills or granules .
