although the disclosure herein refers to certain described embodiments , it is to be understood that embodiments presented herein are by way of example and not by way of limitation .
the intent of this disclosure , while discussing exemplary embodiments , is that the following detailed description be construed to cover all modifications , alternatives , and equivalents of the embodiments as may fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims .
it is to be understood and appreciated that the process steps and formulations described herein do not cover a complete process flow for operations involving compounding , tissue augmentation , and repair .
the present invention may be practiced in conjunction with various techniques that are conventionally used in the art , and only so much of the commonly practiced process steps are included herein as are necessary to provide an understanding of the present invention .
the methods and systems described herein can allow physicians to repair , treat or augment a patient & # 39 ; s tissue or fluids using an enhanced tissue treatment implant which may take the form of a biocompatible augmentation or repair material .
the tissue treatment material can comprise microparticles and a biocompatible carrier medium in the form of a mixture of cross linked native bovine or other mammalian collagen blended with partially denatured gelatinous bovine or other mammalian collagen or biocompatible gelatin , with the ratios of those two components being controlled .
in one aspect of the present invention , the denatured gelatinous bovine or other mammalian , avian or reptilian collagen provides the ability to hold the microparticles uniformly in suspension after blending .
in another embodiment , the crosslinked native fibrillar mammalian , avian or reptilian collagen component provides increased resistance to deformation and an increased shear resistance or shear modulus .
in certain implementations , the enhanced carrier material may comprise cross linked native bovine collagen , blended with the microparticles and a gelatinizing agent derived from animal , vegetable , or synthetic sources .
sacrificial coatings surrounding the hollow and porous microspheres could erode away over time , allowing the release of said agents that were preloaded into the microsphere cores before they were coated .
