the present disclosure relates generally to consumer products and , in particular , to shaving systems . in one embodiment , the present disclosure features a consumer product system having a handle and a blade unit mounted on the handle . the blade unit comprises a housing that contains a plurality of blades , the edges of which are exposed on the bottom surface of the blade unit ( the surface that contacts the user &# 39 ; s skin during shaving ). the opposite surface , or top , of the housing includes a plurality of measurement elements which are configured to assist the user in obtaining a precise shave , as will be discussed further below . referring to fig1 , the handle 12 provides a manner in which the shaving system 10 can be manipulated and leverage can be applied to achieve desired shaving results . measurement elements 30 are positioned on the top surface of the blade unit 20 that is visible to the user during shaving , in a measured manner to allow the user to reference them while shaving . the measurement elements 30 provide a means for the user to more precisely gauge where to utilize the shaving system 10 when sculpting facial and body hair features , e . g . mustache , side burns , etc . for example , the measurement elements 30 , as well as the evenly spaced ruled lines 36 between the measurement elements ( fig1 a ), allow the user to easily determine whether opposite side burns or opposite sides of a mustache are even or whether one side or the other requires further trimming . as shown in fig1 , during shaving the user can use the measurement elements 30 to measure the width of a facial hair feature ( e . g ., a sideburn as shown ) and then compare that measurement to the width measured on the opposite side of the user &# 39 ; s face . referring to fig1 and 1a , in one embodiment the measurement elements 30 are etched on a strip 32 that is inserted in the top edge of the rear side of the housing of blade unit 20 . in this embodiment , the strip 32 may be metal or plastic . the measurement elements may be molded , etched , painted , or applied by any suitable technique . the measurement elements may be enhanced with color to allow for easy identification . the coloration of the measurement elements 30 could be accomplished by using a coating , e . g . pvd coating , plating , decoration , or another technique . referring to fig2 - 5 , in other embodiments , the measurement elements 30 can be integrally formed with the housing of the blade unit 20 . additionally , the measurement elements 30 can protrude from the top and / or right surface of the blade unit 20 . for example , the measurement elements 30 may be in the form of a raised rim surrounding a triangular measurement element aperture 31 ,. alternatively , the measurement elements 30 may be formed in a raised arrow or pointer shape that is defined by surrounding measurement element apertures 31 , as shown in fig6 - 9 . in addition , in an embodiment not shown in the figures the measurement elements may protrude from the right surface of the blade unit 20 , e . g ., out of the plane of the page , towards the viewer , when the blade unit is seen from the viewpoint shown in fig3 . the measurement elements 30 may have many other shapes , for example raised dots as shown in fig1 - 11 . in each of these embodiments , the ruled lines 36 can be formed integrally with the housing as raised or recessed hash marks disposed at regular intervals between the measurement elements . in any of the embodiments shown in fig2 - 10 , the measurement elements or measurement element apertures may be a different color than the housing . for example , in fig2 - 3 the raised rims of measurement element apertures 31 are colored , and in fig1 - 11 the raised dots 33 are colored , in each case to enhance identification of the measurement elements and make it easier for the user to see them . coloring can be accomplished by utilizing pad printing , a technique that is well known in the art , or by other methods such as pvd coating , over - molding or multi - material molding . referring to fig2 , 4 , 6 and 8 , in some embodiments a lubricating / conditioning element 32 is positioned along the trailing edge of the opposite ( skin contacting ) surface of the blade unit 20 and can be seen through the measurement element apertures 31 . ideally , the lubricating element 32 is colored in such a manner as to highlight the measurement element apertures 31 . additionally , as is well known in the shaving art , the lubricating element 32 , when exposed to water , provides a lubricant that is evenly distributed on the skin during shaving . referring to fig1 and 13 , the measurement elements 30 and ruled lines 36 can be positioned on various aspects of the handle 12 of the shaving device 10 , for example along a surface of the handle that is generally parallel to the long axis of the blade unit ( fig1 ), or along the length of the handle ( fig1 ) if a longer row of measurement elements is desired . the measurement elements 30 and ruled lines 36 can be printed , etched , engraved , integrally molded , applied as an adhesive graphic , or other means of attachment . as previously referenced , coloring can be utilized to highlight either or both the measurement elements 30 and the ruled lines 36 thereby uniquely distinguishing them from the other aspects of the handle 12 . in the embodiments shown in the figures , blade unit 20 is removable from handle 12 so that it can be replaced when the blades become dull from use . the handle 12 can be designed to interface with the blade unit 20 in such a manner that would enable easy removal and attachment . this could be accomplished in a number of manners , such as a mechanical locking mechanism , magnetic interaction , etc . for example , the blade unit 20 and handle 12 can interface in the manner discussed in u . s . ser . no . 61 / 651 , 732 , filed may 25 , 2012 , the full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference . the interface between the handle and blade unit may include an interface element , e . g ., interface element 14 ( fig2 ) which provides a pivoting attachment between the blade unit and handle . pivoting of the blade unit is about an axis that is generally parallel to the long axis of the blade unit and is generally positioned to allow the blade unit to follow the contours of a user &# 39 ; s skin during shaving . pivoting shaving systems include a mechanism to provide resistance during shaving and return the blade unit to a “ rest ” position when it is not in contact with the user &# 39 ; s skin . other , more basic embodiments , ( not shown ) feature a blade unit that is pivotable , but fixedly attached to the handle , or even integrally formed with the handle in a fixed position . such embodiments would be less expensive and disposable once the blades became dull from use . the handle 12 and the housing of blade unit 20 can be made of any suitable substantially rigid material including , for example , polyethylene terephthalate ( pet or pete ), high density ( hd ) pete , thermoplastic polymer , polypropylene , oriented polypropylene , polyurethane , polyvinyl chloride ( pvc ), polytetrafluoroethylene ( ptfe ), polyester , high - gloss polyester , metal , nylon polymer , antibacterial or antimicrobial materials , or any combination thereof . a number of embodiments have been described . nevertheless , it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure . for example , in other embodiments the measurement elements can be provided in a variety of colors or alternative shapes . additionally , although the measurement elements have been discussed as being raised , they could alternatively be recessed or combinations of raised and recessed features may be used .
