fig1 a - 1 d depict one aspect of the invention , which includes at least one low profile , relatively compact bowl - shaped container 10 for use at an industrial site that produces a waste product , such as sludge . the container 10 may be buried in the ground or , alternatively , may be above ground and associated with a suitable support structure , if necessary , to ensure stability . still another option is to associate the container 10 with a vehicle v , such as a flatbed truck or trailer ( see fig1 d ), such that it may be easily transported from one site to another and thus becomes portable . as noted above , the container 10 is bowl - shaped , upstanding and preferably generally hemispherical with an open compartment or chamber 12 for receiving the product to be dried ( i . e ., dewatered ). in a preferred embodiment of the invention , the chamber 12 is open at the top , and has a diameter of about ten feet or less . the container 10 can be made of any suitably strong material resistant to leaking and to reaction with the corresponding product . examples of materials from which the container 10 may be constructed include concrete , plastic , steel , or other metal , with a preference for aluminum or stainless steel ( primarily due to the superior corrosion resistance afforded ). in a preferred embodiment , the container 10 is constructed of stainless steel or aluminum and , most preferably , aluminum . specifically , the container 10 may comprise prefabricated components of a size that permits easy transport to the industrial site . the components may then be assembled at the industrial site . if warranted by the projected rate of waste product produced by the industrial site , multiple chambers may be used . this arrangement has the benefit of providing alternative receptacles for when one is full and undergoing the drying cycle , and also allows for varying filter media to be used in a graded fashion ( thus allowing separation of finer particles in sequential processing applications ). the container 10 includes a curved inner sidewall 14 having a plurality of conduits 16 formed therein . preferably , the conduits 16 are generally arcuate , spaced apart grooves or channels formed in the sidewall 14 that , in view of the hemispherical nature , converge towards the bottom central region of the container 10 . as a result , and as best shown in fig1 a , the conduits 16 generally form a sunburst pattern . most preferably , the conduits 16 are formed such that they are generally curved in cross - section and taper from a wider dimension adjacent an upper end or top of the sidewall 14 ( e . g ., 10 inches ) to a narrower width dimension ( e . g ., 2 inches ) adjacent the bottom , such as near the center . also , as perhaps best understood with reference to the partially cutaway cross - sectional view of fig1 c , the conduits 16 preferably have a depth relative to the inner surface of the wall 14 adjacent the top of the container 10 that is infinitely small ( i . e ., approaching zero ), and increase to a greater depth ( e . g ., 5 inches ) adjacent the bottom . in any case , the conduits 16 serve to direct any fluid ( water ) or fluid suspension from the product in the container 10 to an outlet or drain 18 formed at or near the bottom center of the sidewall 14 for recovery . as can be understood viewing fig1 b , which is a linear representation of the sidewall 14 ( which would actually be curvilinear ) to simplify illustrating the inventive concepts , a filter 20 overlies and separates the conduits 16 from the product in the chamber , and preferably also covers the opening or drain 18 through which the vacuum is drawn and the liquid recovered . this filter 20 can be any material suitable for blocking solid particulate matter from a suspension , thus holding the solid particulate matter in place , but that allows liquid from the suspension to pass through . in a preferred embodiment , the filter 20 comprises a sheet of selectively porous material , such as a synthetic polymer based fabric in the form of a woven geotextile . other suitable filter materials useful for practicing the invention are well known to those skilled in the art , for example , any perforated or porous material . of course , an important consideration when selecting a filter for use with this invention is the size of the particulate ( solid ) matter in the suspension to be separated . finer particulate matter would require a finer mesh filter in order to prevent the particulate matter from passing through the filter with the water . the most preferred embodiment allows for micron - based filtration . to prevent the filter material 20 from overly interfering with the flow of liquid in the conduits 16 , it is also preferable to provide a rigid or semi - rigid but fluid pervious barrier material , such as a screen . this screen may be hemispherical in shape ( now shown ) and simply placed in the chamber 12 above or below the filter material 20 , or instead may comprise individual inserts 21 for the container 10 that engage or overlie the conduits 16 ( either above or below the filter material 20 ). the underlying conduits 16 may also be coated with an inert material , such as teflon , to reduce wear on the surface and flow resistance . in a preferred embodiment , the container 10 including the waste product is covered in use . this covering may be accomplished using a sheet of covering material , such as a flexible or non - flexible membrane 22 to create a substantially air - tight seal with the open end of the container 10 . in a preferred embodiment , the membrane 22 is a removable , flexible , substantially impermeable membrane made , for example , of natural or synthetic rubber , neoprene , or like rubber substances . in a most preferred embodiment , the membrane 22 is semi - or selectively permeable in order to allow some gas , such as ambient air , to pass through it . other suitable membrane materials should be readily apparent to those skilled in the art . preferably , the membrane 22 is placed over the chamber 12 and fastened to the upper end of the sidewall 14 ( which as shown may be substantially planar ) using a substantially air - tight means , for example , using bolts b ( see fig2 a ) or any other suitable fastening means ( and possibly in further connection with seals , adhesives gaskets , or the like ). the membrane 22 may also be mounted to a frame , which in turn may associated with means for positioning the membrane relative to the open end of the container 10 ( such as a hydraulic lift 23 or the like for pivoting the frame and membrane together as a unit ; see fig1 a ). when a pressure differential is created in the chamber 12 , such as by pulling a vacuum through the outlet or drain 18 using a pump , motor , or the like with the membrane 22 in place ( see fig2 a ) the differential pressure is substantially evenly distributed across the surface of the contents through the conduits 16 as a result of the bowl - shaped design . in this way , the membrane 22 and the vacuum applied to the inside of the container 10 act together as a means to decrease pressure therein to create a differential pressure and consequently “ squeeze ” the contents of the chamber 12 . this applied squeezing forces liquid , such as water , from the chamber 12 , through the filter 20 , into the conduits 16 , and through the drain 18 for recovery . however , the solids for the most part are prevented from passing as the result of the filter 20 and any screen ( s ) 21 present . the liquid fraction recovered may then undergo further processing , such as polishing , for use in other applications , heat may be provided for increasing the temperature of the product contained in the chamber 12 . in many applications , heating the product speeds the rate of drying by both increasing the rate of filtration and increasing the rate of evaporative drying . furthermore , as pressure decreases the vaporization point of all liquids , the negative pressure enables low levels of induced heat to turn liquids into gas and be safely removed from the effluent . the heating element may be an electric resistive heating element , a gas heater , or any other suitable heating means . in a preferred embodiment , as shown in the partially exploded , cutaway , top view of fig3 , the heating element consists of one or more delivery lines 24 embedded in the sidewall 14 of the chamber 12 , such as between the conduits 16 , thus allowing steam or heated fluids to be circulated to elevate the temperature of the product contained therein . however , as indicated in fig2 a , the heat could also be supplied by lines positioned in and / or extending along the inside of the chamber 12 . in either case , it should be appreciated that the applied heat may further effect drying through the partial evaporation of the liquid content . the process of pulling a vacuum for a time , then releasing the vacuum , may be repeated several times as required until the remaining solids are sufficiently dry for their intended purpose . if a drier product is required , the process may need to be repeated for some time . often , however , some remaining moisture is desirable , especially for products containing finer particulate matter , so that the fine solids can be unloaded and transported with minimal spillage ( that is , the remaining moisture serves as a binder ). before initiating the any vacuum , it is also of course possible to allow for gravity to effect naturally some initial liquid separation , which of course saves energy . sensors and pressure release valves may be associated with the chamber 12 to prevent dangerous internal pressure levels from occurring . these valves may be set electronically depending on the substances being processed and their combustion point . for instance , in municipal waste processing , methane within the effluent that is under direct pressure and heat may become volatile at certain levels . the pressure sensors may be used to detect this and trigger the release valves to open and reduce the internal pressure . once the product is sufficiently dried , it may be removed from the chamber 12 . this may be accomplished by removing the membrane 22 and then simply scooping out the product . however , the compact , low - profile nature of the bowl - shaped container 10 of the invention also allows for it to simply be lifted for dumping out the dried contents using an adjacent means , such as a hydraulic lifter 26 associated with a pivot axis 28 . in such case , the arrangement of the drain 18 would be such that it may be easily detached or otherwise disconnected from any associated line ( s ) for the vacuum or liquid takeaway . in order to speed the drying process , a system including at least one of the containers 10 may include a dryer 30 for drying the remaining product once a substantial portion of the liquid is removed . in the embodiment shown in the drawing figures , the dryer 30 is associated with a conveyor 32 on which the remaining substantially dried product is placed , and may pass through a heater 34 . preferably , the infeed end of the conveyor 32 is positioned such that the product can be dumped directly on it as a result of the reorientation of the container 10 using the lifter 26 . in another system , and as shown with reference to fig2 b , two of the apparatus 10 , 100 may be used in series . as shown , the containers 12 , 112 may be in communication with common vacuum source , as well as possibly with one or more additional downstream vacuum sources ( pump or motor ), as shown in fig2 b . as noted above , an array or series of the containers 10 may also be used as necessary to simultaneously process a large amount of waste product in parallel , each operating independently . in an alternate embodiment , as shown in fig5 , the bowl - shaped container 10 may be of a clamshell design , formed of two hemispherical bowl - shaped upper and lower portions 10 a , 10 b , and thus forming a generally spherical body . the upper bowl portion 10 a serving as the cover in this embodiment would have direct valves into the lower bowl portion 10 b through any membrane 22 , thus allowing for a closed system . when the valve is open , a vacuum may also be applied to the upper bowl portion 10 a to remove dry materials from the lower portion 10 b , while smaller blowers associated with the side walls circulate the dry material in a cyclone - like fashion while the vacuum is applied from the top . if used , the semi - permeable membrane 22 would thus allow some hot , dry air ( note action arrows a ) to pass into the lower bowl portion 10 b when the vacuum is applied thereto . with reference to fig5 , it is also shown that a mixer m or agitator , such as a rotatable mixing blade , may be provided to churn the dried yield in the lower bowl portion 10 b . the upper bowl portion 10 a may then be used as the vacuum point to remove the dried and loosened yield for recovery . in lieu of a mechanical mixer , it is possible in this or any of the embodiments disclosed to agitate the contents by reversing the vacuum motor in order to cause air to flow back through the conduits 16 , the filter material 20 , and any screen ( s ) 21 present ( which may or may not require opening a pressure release valve , depending on the relative permeability of the membrane 22 used ). this would essentially provide a sparging function to the container 12 . the foregoing description provides illustration of the inventive concepts . the descriptions are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosed invention to the precise form disclosed . modifications or variations are also possible in light of the above teachings . for example , a positive pressure may be used to create the differential pressure in the chamber of the container , such as by pressurizing the space between the liquid - solid product and the cover ( membrane ). additional modifications to the bowl - shaped container 10 can also be made , as disclosed in u . s . published patent application no . 2002 / 0113014 , the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference . the embodiments described above were chosen to provide the best application to thereby enable one of ordinary skill in the art to utilize the inventions in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated . all such modifications and variations are within the scope of the invention .
