with reference now to the drawings , the preferred embodiment of the application tool is herein described . it should be noted that the articles “ a ”, “ an ” and “ the ”, as used in this specification , include plural referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise . with reference to fig1 , the tool comprises a tip attachment 10 which is attachable to a reservoir that holds the material prior to dispensation . the reservoir may take any shape known or later discovered in the art . as examples , fig5 - 7 depict a syringe reservoir 5 , a tube reservoir 6 , and a bag reservoir 7 , respectively . attachment means 14 serves as a conduit for the material from the reservoir and may be of any means known or later discovered . presently the preferred means would be either a threaded interface , a clip - on interface or means by which the tip attachment is made integral with the reservoir ( i . e . the tip is one part of a tool assembly with the reservoir ). in operation , positive pressure is applied to the reservoir to force material through the attachment means 14 . this positive pressure may be applied by any traditional or later discovered means , including the use of pressurized gasses , a plunger / syringe apparatus 5 , shown in fig5 , or merely squeezing the reservoir 6 , 7 . this listing is not intended to be exhaustive and any means of providing positive pressure to the reservoir is to be considered within the scope of the invention . the selection of a pressurizing means will be dependent on the scale of the invention in its use , from a micro sized , unit - dose application to a larger industrial application . as such , the illustrated means of providing positive pressure are merely examples and not an exhaustive list . other means are considered well known and numerous in the art and the application of such means so obvious that the illustration of such abundant means is superfluous . in the preferred embodiment , a flexible , funnel - like passage 12 is defined outside the attachment means 14 and , at a terminal orifice 22 , at least one filament forms the brush end 20 . the flexibility of the passage aids in maneuvering the brush end 20 where a user desired material to be deposited . however , the use of passage 12 is not an absolute necessity to the practice of the invention and the brush end may extend from attachment means 14 or even from the reservoir itself for additional embodiments . in one embodiment , as seen in fig1 , the filament at brush end 20 is a single tubule 16 and the passage 12 tapers for a smaller second orifice 22 . interior end of tubule 24 resides within the passageway 12 so that tubule 16 serves as a material conduit . for a second embodiment , shown in fig2 and 3 , the filaments are a plurality of tubules 16 are used to form the brush end 20 . interior ends of the tubules 24 reside inside the passage and serve as conduits for expressing material onto the work site from the tool . in fig4 , a combination of tubules 16 and bristles 18 are utilized . tubules 16 may be permanently affixed to the terminal end of the passage by any known means , including solvent or sonic welding , use of adhesives , or simply the use of friction , whereby the elastomeric qualities of the passage 12 are utilized to hold bristles 18 and tubules 16 , in sufficient quantity and collective cross - sectional area to expand the terminal end , in place . the materials used in this invention are ideally determined by the scale a user desires . with smaller scale uses , plastics are ideal as they can be manufactured inexpensively and provide the proper balance between flexibility and rigidity . in larger scale , and possibly reusable , applications , metals and composites would ideally be used . tubule length in comparison to other filaments is flexible . the longer the tubule 16 in relation to bristles 18 , generally the better efficiency and utility of the invention . however , it is possible to have tubules 16 extending no further than the orifice 22 itself and the invention will still function . likewise , it is conceivable and within the scope of this invention to have the tubules 16 extending no further than the attachment means 14 ( foregoing the passageway 12 ) or the reservoir itself , in which case the attachment means 14 serves as a form of collar for the brush end 20 extending directly from the reservoir . although the present invention has been described with reference to preferred embodiments , numerous modifications and variations can be made and still the result will come within the scope of the invention . no limitation with respect to the specific embodiments disclosed herein is intended or should be inferred .
