fig1 to 9 are different illustrations showing the production of an exemplary embodiment of a torsional profile according to the invention by means of the method according to the invention for producing a torsional profile from a tubular hollow profile 1 . here , fig1 , 4 and 7 show the same arrangement in different illustrations , in which the tubular hollow profile 1 is already arranged in a deformation die 2 in the form of a bottom die . in this case , it can be seen in particular in fig1 that , also , first mandrels 4 , have already been inserted into the tubular hollow profile at the ends 19 thereof . the first mandrels 4 , 5 are in this case designed so as to taper toward the middle of the tubular hollow profile 1 , indicated by the central axis 15 in fig1 . here , the first mandrels 4 , 5 extend in each case almost as far as the middle of the tubular hollow body 1 . in this exemplary embodiment , the tubular hollow body 1 has a circular cross section , such that the walls of the tubular hollow profile 1 have an initial spacing d 1 . in the cross - sectional illustration as per fig4 , it can now be seen that the tubular hollow profile 1 , before its deformation , has been placed into the deformation die 2 which is in the form of a bottom die , said tubular hollow profile being securely fixed over its longitudinal extent by the readjusting guide elements 14 , which are also simultaneously designed as holders , in the deformation die 2 over its entire longitudinal extent . at the ends , the tubular hollow profile 1 is fixed by the first mandrels 4 , 5 . fig7 furthermore shows holders 13 by means of which the hollow profile 1 , in its end regions 19 , is held down during the deformation process . fig4 furthermore illustrates a punch 6 by means of which the tubular hollow profile 1 is subsequently deformed by virtue of the punch being pushed downward into the deformation die 2 . in this way , a recessed profile is generated in the torsional region 3 . fig7 now shows , in a plan view , a sub - region of a device for producing a torsional profile according to the invention , wherein , however , to better illustrate the cross section of the tubular hollow profile , only one half has been illustrated . it is possible here to clearly see the holding - down elements 14 which , in this exemplary embodiment , extend over the longitudinal extent of the entire tubular hollow body 1 . it is also possible to clearly see the holders 13 by means of which the hollow profile 1 , in the end regions 19 , is held down during the deformation process . fig2 , 5 and 8 now show the tubular hollow body 1 after its deformation to form the reshaped hollow profile 7 . as can be seen in particular from fig2 , the hollow profile 1 has been deformed such that the reshaped hollow profile 7 comes to bear against the first mandrels 4 and 5 in the torsional region 3 . in this case , the first mandrels 4 and 5 have a considerably smaller thickness in the region of the torsional region 3 than in the end region 19 of the reshaped hollow profile 7 . therefore , in the end region 19 , the first mandrels 4 and 5 taper until they assume an approximately constant thickness again in the torsional region 3 . fig5 now shows a sectional illustration along the section plane b - b of fig3 , wherein here , the punch is additionally illustrated . here , it is already possible to clearly see that the originally tubular hollow profile 1 of fig1 , 4 and 7 has been deformed in the torsional region 3 to form a reshaped , substantially v - shaped hollow profile 7 , wherein the latter has inner walls 17 and outer walls 18 which are spaced apart in the region of the recess with a spacing d 2 . along the outer walls 18 and inner walls 17 in their extent toward the readjusting guide elements 14 in the form of holders , the spacing between the outer walls 18 and the inner walls 17 may also vary , in particular increase , that is to say said spacing does not need to have the constant value d 2 . the v - shaped configuration of the reshaped hollow profile 7 can also be seen particularly clearly in fig8 . although the reshaped hollow profile 7 of fig2 , 5 and 8 already has the desired torsional characteristics , it is then possible in a further method step for the desired spacing d 3 between the outer walls 18 and the inner walls 17 in the region of the recess to be precisely set in the torsional region 3 . the way in which this is achieved emerges from the illustrations of fig3 , 6 and 9 . specifically , for this purpose , the reshaped hollow profile 7 is arranged in a deformation die , which is likewise in the form of a bottom die , and the ends of said reshaped hollow profile are fixed at the end regions 19 by means of second mandrels 9 , 10 . it is also the case in the second deformation die 8 that holding - down elements 16 in the form of holders are arranged over the longitudinal extent for fixing purposes . the second mandrels 9 , 10 are now formed such that they duly taper , but only in the end region 19 , and not into the torsional region 3 . in other exemplary embodiments not shown here , it is also possible for the second mandrels 9 , 10 to extend into the torsional region 3 . here , the mandrels 9 , 10 then serve to calibrate the tube end and furthermore define the end position of the second punch 11 and thus also the dimension of the gap between the outer walls 18 and the inner walls 17 in the region of the recess , or the spacing d 3 . as can be seen in particular from fig6 , the reshaped hollow profile 7 is reshaped to form the further - reshaped hollow profile 12 by virtue of a second punch 11 being moved downward into the second deformation die 8 , which is in the form of a bottom die , and in the process the reshaped hollow profile 7 being deformed in the torsional region 3 to form the further - reshaped hollow profile 12 , this being achieved precisely when the further - reshaped hollow profile 12 comes to bear , in the end region 19 , against the taper of the second mandrels 9 and 10 . specifically , it is precisely then that the desired spacing d 3 is realized in the recess of the further - reshaped hollow profile 12 . during said reshaping process , the upper regions of the further - reshaped hollow profile 12 can be provided with readjusting guidance by means of the holding - down elements , such that particularly gentle processing is realized there during the reshaping process . as can also be seen in particular from fig6 , it is the case in the further - reshaped hollow profile 12 that the spacing between the inner walls 17 and the outer walls 18 is greater in the upper region than in the region of the recess , for said spacing has assumed the desired spacing d 3 . after the reshaping of the originally tubular hollow profile 1 to form the further - reshaped hollow profile has been completed , the second punch 11 is then moved out of the second deformation die 8 , and the second mandrels 9 , 10 are likewise pulled out of the further - reshaped hollow profile 12 . it is then possible for the further - reshaped hollow profile 12 , as a finished torsional profile , to be removed from the second deformation die 8 and supplied for further use or processing . it is also pointed out here that the deformation of the originally tubular hollow profile 1 and of the reshaped hollow profile 7 during the movement of the respective punch 6 , 11 into the respective deformation die 2 , 8 takes the form of ironing and thus strain hardening . thus , after the removal of the reshaped hollow profile 7 or of the further - reshaped hollow profile 12 from the tool dies 2 , 8 , only a small degree of spring - back occurs , such that the required spacings d 2 and d 3 can be produced in a very precise manner .
