fig1 to 3 present a schematic top , side and bottom view , respectively , of a toy snake 1 in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention . the toy snake 1 can be seen to comprise a head 2 , a central body section 3 and a tail 4 . nine body sections 5 are longitudinally arranged between the head 2 and the central body section 3 , each body section 5 being pivotally attached to their adjacent segments . the first and ninth body sections 5 are also pivotally attached to the head 2 and central body section 3 , respectively . in a similar manner , a further nine body sections 5 are longitudinally arranged between the central body section 3 and the tail 4 , each body section 5 again being pivotally attached to their adjacent segments . the tenth and eighteenth body sections 5 are also pivotally attached to the central body section 3 and the tail 4 , respectively . the top surface of the head 2 , central body section 3 , body sections 5 and tail 4 preferably comprise a representation of snake skin so as to increase the authentic look of the snake 1 . this representation may be applied by engraving , embossing or printing on the top surface of these sections . in the presently described embodiment , a set of free spinning wheels 6 are located on the bottom surface of the fourth and fifteenth body sections 5 , the central body section 3 and the tail 4 . these wheels 6 assist the movement of the snake 1 across a surface , as described in further detail below . the tail 4 also comprises a plurality of beads which rattle during the movement of the snake 1 across a surface , thus further adding to the authenticity of the snake 1 . located within the head 2 is a power source 7 in the form of four battery cells , a printed circuit board ( pcb ) 8 upon which are mounted the control electronics for the snake 1 , and a motor unit 9 . it is preferable for the pcb to comprise a receiver 10 such that the snake 1 can be controlled via a remote control unit 11 . a tongue 12 is attached to the motor unit 9 and extends from the head 2 . on the bottom surface of the head 2 is located a switch 13 used to connect and disconnect the power source 7 and the motor unit 9 . detail of the motor unit 9 is provided within the exploded view of fig4 . the motor unit 9 comprises a housing 14 located external of which are two wheels 15 a and 15 b . the wheels 15 a and 15 b are provided with serrated grips so as to increase the friction between the wheels 15 a and 15 b and the surface over which the snake 1 is to move . two electric motors , 16 a and 16 b , are located within housing 14 , each connected via a gearing mechanism 17 to just one of the wheels 15 a and 15 b so as to provide a means for independently driving each of the wheels 15 a and 15 b . a tongue gearing mechanism 18 is employed to connect the electric motor 16 a to the tongue 12 . as a result , when the electric motor 16 a drives wheel 15 a it also acts to move the tongue 12 in and out of the head 2 . a circuit diagram of control electronics 19 employed within the motor unit 9 is provided within fig5 . a circuit diagram of the corresponding remote control unit 11 is provided in fig6 . with reference to fig7 there now follows an explanation of how the motor unit 9 acts to move the snake 1 across a surface . when the switch 13 is in the on position the power source 7 is connected to the motor unit 9 and the snake 1 is ready for use . on activating a forward button or joystick mechanism 20 on the remote control unit 11 the control electronics 19 act to provide power to electric motor 16 b so that wheel 15 b begins to rotate independently of wheel 15 a . as shown in fig7 ( a ) the effect of this is to cause the snake 1 to move forward while the head 2 turns to the left . the turning of the head 2 causes a ripple to flow down the body , as presented schematically in fig7 ( b ). after a short period of time , for example one second , the control electronics 19 act to power down electric motor 16 b and to power up electric motor 16 a . at this stage wheel 15 a begins to rotate independently of wheel 15 b which now stops rotating . as a result , the snake 1 continues to move forward with the head 2 now turning through its original central location towards the right , as presented schematically in fig7 ( c ). this oscillation of the powering up and powering down the electric motors 16 a and 16 a causes corresponding ripples to flow down through the body as the snake 1 moves over a surface in a substantially linear direction . it is the combined forward movement and the body rippling effect that allows the snake 1 to reproduce a highly realistic natural movement of a snake . the realistic nature of the snake 1 is further added to by the in and out movement of the tongue 12 as the snake 1 slithers across the surface and the rattling sound produced by the tail 4 . the control electronics 19 may also allow the toy snake to be temporarily deviated from the above described substantially linear propagation . when the joystick mechanism 20 of remote control unit 11 is pushed to one side the oscillatory driving of the wheels 15 a and 15 b is overridden such that only one of the wheels is powered at any one time e . g . if the joystick mechanism 20 is pushed left wheel 15 a is powered and the toy snake will turn to the left . in a similar manner , if the joystick mechanism 20 is pushed right wheel 15 b is powered and the toy snake will turn to the right . when the joystick mechanism 20 is returned to the forward direction the oscillatory powering of the wheels 15 a and 15 b is resumed . the above described snake may be adapted so as to provide a toy snake that moves across the surface of water . in order to achieve this water snake embodiment the wheels in the head are simply required to be adapted so as to function as water wheels . the wheels within the body sections and the tail may then be removed . it will be appreciated that a number of alternatives exists to the above described embodiments . for example , the length of the body of the snake may be varied so as to decrease or increase the overall length of the snake , as desired . indeed the head and tail could be pivotally connected directly to each other , although this would detract from the above described rippling effect . with larger snakes it may prove beneficial to increase the number of drive wheels on each side of the head . the rippling effect is still achieved as long as wheels on the same side of the head are powered up and down at the same time . in a similar manner , the number of body sections comprising free rotating wheels may wish to be increased or decreased in accordance with the length of the snake . the described rippling effect may also be changed by varying the period of oscillation of the powering up and down of the electric motors . in a further alternative embodiment , the snake may commence operation upon the switch being moved to the on position , thus removing the need for a receiver and the remote control unit . it is envisaged that a speaker may also be incorporated within the control electronics so that the snake may appear to make a hissing sound as it moves . as an alternative to battery cells , the snake may employ a solar panel to generate the required power . the foregoing description of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed . the described embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilise the invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated . therefore , further modifications or improvements may be incorporated without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims .
