the preferred compression ignition engine is powered by diesel fuel , but other forms of fuel are also possible including natural gas ( ng ) and blends of diesel and biofuel or fischer - tropsch process derived fuels . the honeycomb substrate monolith can be made from a ceramic material such as cordierite or silicon carbide , or a metal such as fecralloy ™. the arrangement is preferably a so - called flow - through configuration , in which a plurality of channels extend in parallel from an open inlet end to an open outlet end . however , the honeycomb substrate monolith may also take the form of a filtering substrate such as a so - called wall - flow filter or a ceramic foam . in one embodiment , the thermal mass in the first , upstream washcoat zone is greater than the thermal mass in the second , downstream washcoat zone . however , in a presently preferred embodiment , the thermal mass in the first , upstream washcoat zone is less than the thermal mass in the second , downstream washcoat zone . in either of the preceding embodiments , the honeycomb substrate monolith has a total length . in embodiments , the first , upstream washcoat zone is defined at an upstream end by an inlet end of the honeycomb substrate monolith and at a downstream end by point between 10 % and 90 %, optionally between 15 % and 80 % such as between 20 % and 30 % or 20 % and 40 %, of the total length of the substrate monolith measured from the inlet end . in preferred embodiments , the length of the inlet zone is less than the length of the outlet zone . a desirable feature of a low washcoat loading is that its relatively low thermal mass enables it to heat up more quickly and hence to “ light - off ” more efficiently following cold - start . however , because of the lower thermal mass , the catalyst can also cool down more quickly and in this regard “ lighting - out ” in the middle of a drive cycle after initially warming up ( i . e . post -“ light - off ”) is an undesirable feature . higher washcoat loadings have the advantage that there is more support material present to support precious metal , and higher precious metal dispersions are possible . the higher washcoat loading can provide greater resistance to thermal ageing in use , i . e . higher thermal durability . in a particular embodiment , the different thermal mass in the first or second zone relative from the second or first zone respectively is provided by a thicker washcoat layer than is used in the other zone . in this embodiment , a washcoat loading in the thicker washcoat layer may be 4 to 10 gin − 3 , such as from 5 to 8 gin − 3 . conversely , in the other zone a washcoat loading in the relatively thinner washcoat layer can be from 1 to 3 . 5 gin − 3 , such as from 2 to 3 gin − 3 . alternatively , according to another embodiment , the different thermal mass in the first or second zone relative from the second or first zone respectively may be provided by a washcoat component having a density of at least 3 . 50 gcm − 3 . materials having the suitable density may be selected from the group consisting of densified alpha alumina , densified lanthana , densified cerium ii oxide , densified cerium iii oxide and densified zirconia . in preferred embodiments , a total precious metal loading , measured as unit weight of precious metal per unit volume of washcoat , in the first , upstream washcoat zone is greater than a total precious metal loading in the second , downstream washcoat zone . in one embodiment , for example , the first , upstream washcoat zone comprises 55 to 90 % of a total precious metal loading of the honeycomb substrate monolith . in another embodiment , the first , upstream washcoat zone comprises 60 to 80 % of the total precious metal loading of the honeycomb substrate monolith . a total precious loading on the honeycomb substrate monolith can be from 15 to 300 gft − 3 , such as from 30 to 150 gft − 3 , e . g . 40 to 120 gft − 3 . precious metals for use in the present invention include one or more selected from platinum , palladium , rhodium , gold , silver or mixtures of any two or more thereof . a preferred embodiment subset of precious metals for use in the present invention is the platinum group metals . particularly preferred selections of precious metals include platinum per se , palladium per se , a mixture of both platinum and palladium ( optionally present as an alloy ) or a combination of palladium and gold , either as a mixture , an alloy or both a mixture and an alloy . in a particular embodiment , the precious metal or combination of precious metals in the first , upstream zone is different from the precious metal or combination of precious metals in the second , downstream zone . generally , the or each precious metal is supported on a high surface area refractory oxide component . suitable precious metal support components include alumina , silica , amorphous aluminosilicates , molecular sieves such as aluminosilicate zeolites , titania , magnesia , magnesium aluminate , ceria , zirconia etc . and mixtures , composite oxides and mixed oxides of any two or more thereof , optionally stabilised with one or more rare earth elements . particularly preferred mixed oxides include ceria - zirconia , which ( depending on the content of ceria ) may also include one or more rare earth metals , and alumina doped with silica . the catalyst for use in the present invention can be located at any convenient point on the vehicle , taking account of packaging and space constraints on the vehicle . common locations are in the close - coupled location as close to the engine exhaust manifold as possible to take advantage of the hottest possible exhaust gas temperatures . common alternative locations include the so - called “ underfloor ” position . the following example represents the results of a computer model , wherein a cylindrical 400 cells per square inch cordierite flow - through honeycomb monolith substrate having dimensions 143 × 98 × 135 mm and a volume of 1 . 50 l is coated throughout with an homogeneous diesel oxidation catalyst washcoat layer of low ( 2 . 5 gin − 3 ) or high ( 7 . 0 gin − 3 ) washcoat loading and a uniform platinum loading ( comparative example ). zoned diesel oxidation catalysts according to the invention were prepared using the same bare honeycomb substrate monolith and are shown in table 1 . methods of preparing zoned honeycomb substrate monoliths are known in the art and include the applicant &# 39 ; s wo 99 / 47260 , i . e . comprising the steps of ( a ) locating a containment means on top of a support , ( b ) dosing a pre - determined quantity of a liquid component into said containment means , either in the order ( a ) then ( b ) or ( b ) then ( a ), and ( c ) by applying pressure or vacuum , drawing said liquid component into at least a portion of the support , and retaining substantially all of said quantity within the support . the percentage figures shown in the “ washcoat loading ” column of table 1 represent the length of the first , upstream zone ( far left - hand column ) and second , downstream zone relative to the total substrate length as measured from the inlet end of the substrate monolith . the “ pt loading ” column represents the platinum metal loading in the first , upstream zone ( left - hand column ) and the second , downstream zone from left to right , respectively . the co ( g ) and hc ( g ) figures are for carbon monoxide and hydrocarbon present measured at the outlet to the diesel oxidation catalyst . the “ normalised co ( g ) conversion ” and “ normalised hc ( g ) conversion ” is relative to the homogeneously coated low washcoat loaded , 40 gft − 3 ( comparative example 2 ). the total platinum content in all of the examples was constant . the mass flow , temperature and engine - out carbon monoxide ( co ( g )) and total hydrocarbon ( hc ( g )) content of the exhaust gas from the 2 . 4 liter euro iv bench - mounted vehicular diesel engine was recorded using a vehicle dynamometer fitted in the so - called close - coupled position as close to the engine exhaust manifold as practically possible ( given the space constraints on the vehicle ), and these data were used to construct the computer model using modelled catalyst configurations . although the engine used was not fitted with “ stop - start ” technology , the effect of such a system was mimicked by turning off the engine whenever the mveg - b european drive cycle reached idle . the results for mass flow , catalyst inlet temperature carbon monoxide ( co ) and total hydrocarbon ( thc ) content in the exhaust gas is shown in fig1 . the results are shown in table 1 , from which it can be seen that using the homogeneous high washcoat loading ( comparative example 1 ) instead of the homogeneous low washcoat loading ( comparative example 2 ) lowers the co and hc conversion over the whole mveg - b cycle . one plausible explanation for this result is that the catalyst is slower to light - off for co and hc conversion at the start of the test because of the increased thermal mass of the catalyst . an improvement in co oxidation was obtained where the upstream half of the substrate monolith was coated with a low washcoat loading while the downstream half remained coated with a high washcoat loading ( example 3 ), without adjusting the relative platinum metal loadings between the zones . for the vehicle tested , the reverse arrangement of this configuration ( wherein the upstream 50 % zone is high washcoat loaded and the downstream half is low washcoat loaded ( i . e . example 4 )) gives worse activity than the control . however , the vehicle tested has a particularly cold - running engine and the inventors still believe that the configuration of example 4 may be particularly useful for a vehicle having an engine that runs hotter ( the product offerings of different vehicle manufacturers can vary in mveg - b on - cycle exhaust gas temperature ). hence , the example 4 configuration is still regarded as falling within the scope of the present invention . however , the remaining results shown in table 1 ( i . e . for examples 5 - 8 inclusive ) concentrate on configurations featuring a low loaded upstream zone but varying the length and platinum metal loading of the upstream zone . it can be seen that by shortening the length of the upstream low washcoat loaded zone to 25 % ( example 5 ), a further improvement in co oxidation is obtained over the example 4 configuration . the remaining embodiments ( examples 6 - 8 inclusive ) retained the 25 % length inlet zone low washcoat loading / 75 % length outlet zone high washcoat loading arrangement and investigated changing the platinum metal loading split between the two zones . a higher ( 100 g / ft 3 ) inlet zone platinum loading relative to a lower ( 20 g / ft 3 ) outlet zone platinum loading gave an improved co conversion , but slightly poorer hc conversion than the homogeneous loaded embodiment ( see results in table 1 for example 6 ). however , further iterations of the platinum split ( 70 g / ft 3 upstream zone / 30 g / ft 3 downstream zone ( example 7 ); and 85 g / ft 3 upstream zone / 25 g / ft 3 downstream zone ( example 8 )) gave similar hc conversion results to those of the homogeneously loaded catalyst but surprisingly improved the co conversion relative to the higher pgm loaded upstream zone embodiment ( i . e . the 100 g / ft 3 upstream zone embodiment ). for the avoidance of any doubt , the entire contents of documents cited herein are incorporated herein by reference .
