fig5 shows the individual method steps s 21 to s 33 of a method for optimizing the allocation of a pipe with several pipe parts to be cut in the form of a flow chart . the method includes a first process stage with steps s 21 to s 25 , measurement of the length of the pipe ( steps s 26 and s 27 ) and a second process stage with steps s 28 to s 33 . the first process stage is performed prior to measurement of the length and the second process stage is performed after the measurement of the length of the pipe . in a first step s 21 , a parts order for a pipe part to be cut is created and approved in the order table 49 of the fmc software 39 , wherein the parts order also states the quantity of the pipe parts to be cut in addition to the program name of the associated nc parts program . when the nc parts programs of the pipe part that are required for creating a parts order are not contained in the program management 41 of the control computer 31 , the nc parts programs are imported into the program management 41 when the parts order is created . in a second step s 22 , it is checked whether nesting of this pipe part with respect to the other pipe parts of the order table with the status “ approved ” and with respect to the same pipe part was performed and whether the nesting results are already present . when two pipe parts are nested , any possible rotation ( a - offset ) and / or displacement ( x - offset ) of one pipe part relative to the other pipe part is calculated . whether and to what extent a pipe part can be rotated and / or displaced is determined by the programmer via the properties “ rotatable about a - offset ” and “ displaceable about x - offset ” while creating the nc parts program . the rotatability is important e . g . for pipes having a weld seam in the longitudinal direction . when the longitudinal seam of all cut pipe parts shall have the same orientation , the pipe parts must not be rotated relative to one another during pipe allocation and the pipe parts are non - rotatable . the displaceability is e . g . important for pipe parts that make high demands on the surface quality in the area of the initial and final geometries . when the laser beam pierces the initial and final geometry , part of the laser beam hits the pipe , mainly on the opposite pipe inner side and can cause discoloration of the pipe part at that location . if discoloration of the pipe part in the area of the initial and final geometries is not desired , the pipe part must not be displaced at all or only within a limited range . nesting is based on unrolling of the three - dimensional pipe parts with the initial and final geometries into the two - dimensional plane . when the result of the test of step s 22 is negative ( n ) and the pipe part is not or only incompletely nested , nesting of the pipe part with respect to the same pipe part and to all approved pipe parts of the order table is calculated in a third step s 23 , and the nesting results ( x and a - offsets ) are stored in a fourth step s 24 . the steps s 23 and s 24 are called preparatory calculation . either after step s 24 or when the result of the test of step s 22 is positive ( j ), it is checked in a fifth step s 25 whether a parts order has been created and approved in the order table for all pipe parts to be cut . when the result of the test of step s 25 is negative ( n ), the first method stage is continued with step s 21 and a further parts order for a pipe part is created and approved in the order table . when the result of the test of step s 25 is positive ( j ) and a parts order for all pipe parts to be cut has been created and approved in the order table , the first process stage of the inventive method for optimizing the pipe allocation is terminated . in a sixth step s 26 , the length of the pipe is measured and the measured value of the pipe length is transferred from the measuring means 85 to the control device 6 of the laser cutting machine 1 in a seventh step s 27 . the second process stage of the method starts after the control device 6 has received the measured value of the pipe length in step s 27 . in an eighth step s 28 , a first pipe allocation variant is determined for which the sum of the lengths of the pipe parts ( sum of pipe parts ) and also the occupied pipe length are calculated by means of the nesting results from the preparatory calculation ( steps s 23 and s 24 ) of the first process stage . the first pipe allocation variant is stored together with the sum of pipe parts and the occupied pipe length in a ninth step s 29 as the desired , or “ best pipe allocation .” in a tenth step s 30 , it is checked whether the calculation of the pipe allocation variants was interrupted or terminated . when the result of the test of step s 30 is positive ( j ) and the calculation of the pipe allocation variants is terminated , the method for optimizing the pipe allocation is terminated and the pipe allocation variant stored in step s 29 as the desired , or “ best pipe allocation ” represents the result of the optimization method . when the result of the test of step s 30 is negative ( n ) and the calculation of further pipe allocation variants is continued , in an eleventh step s 31 a further pipe allocation variant is determined for which the sum of pipe parts and the occupied pipe length are calculated by means of the nesting results of step s 23 . in a twelfth step s 32 , the sum of pipe parts of the further pipe allocation variant is compared with the sum of pipe parts of the “ best pipe allocation ” stored in step s 29 . when the result of the comparison of step s 32 is smaller ( n ), i . e . the sum of pipe parts of the further pipe allocation variant is smaller than the sum of pipe parts of the “ best pipe allocation ,” the further pipe allocation variant is dismissed and the inventive method is continued with step s 30 . when the result of the comparison of step s 32 is , however , larger ( j ), i . e . the sum of pipe parts of the further pipe allocation variant is larger than the sum of pipe parts of the desired , or “ best pipe allocation ,” the method is continued with step s 29 and the further pipe allocation variant with the sum of pipe parts and the occupied pipe length is then stored as the “ best pipe allocation .” when the result of the comparison of step s 32 is equal ( g ), i . e . the sum of pipe parts of the further pipe allocation variant corresponds to the sum of pipe parts of the “ best pipe allocation ,” the occupied pipe length calculated in step s 31 is compared in a thirteenth step s 33 with the occupied pipe length of the “ best pipe allocation .” when the result of the comparison of step s 33 is larger or equal ( n ), the pipe allocation variant determined in step s 31 is dismissed and the method is continued with step s 30 . when the result of the comparison of step s 33 is smaller ( j ), the method is continued with step s 29 and the further pipe allocation variant with the sum of pipe parts and the occupied pipe length is then stored as the “ best pipe allocation .” in comparison with all other calculated pipe allocation variants , the “ best pipe allocation ” is e . g . characterized in that the sum of pipe parts is maximum and with identical sum of pipe parts , the occupied pipe length is minimum . when the pipe occupancies for several pipes are optimized ( cross - pipe optimization method ) it is also feasible not to use the maximum sum of pipe parts as a criterion for the “ best pipe allocation ” for a pipe when it is better to dispose a pipe part on another pipe . in order to limit the time for preparatory calculation , the method for optimizing pipe allocation shown in fig5 only uses approved parts orders of the order table , i . e . parts orders that have the status “ approved .” when there is sufficient time for preparatory calculation , nesting of a pipe part with respect to the blocked parts orders , i . e . parts orders with the status “ blocked ,” can also be calculated in addition to the approved parts orders . it is also possible to calculate nesting of a pipe part with respect to the same pipe part and to other pipe parts already during importing the associated nc parts program into the program management 41 . in this case , the required time and storage space can dramatically increase . one parts order normally refers to one single pipe part that is unambiguously characterized by the associated nc parts program name . when pipe parts are to be produced in assemblies , the different pipe parts of the assembly can be combined into one order . in this case , the order comprises all nc parts programs of the individual pipe parts . parts orders for pipe parts need not be created in fmc software 39 but can be created outside of the fmc software 39 in a programming system . the order table is subsequently imported together with the nc parts programs into the fmc software 39 . nestings of the pipe parts with respect to each other can also be calculated in the programming system . the nesting results are then imported together with the order table into the fmc software 39 . fig6 a - d show how step s 23 of the preparatory calculation of the first process stage ( fig6 b ) and the steps s 28 to s 33 of the second process stage ( fig6 c , d ) of the optimization method for pipe allocation are performed by means of example of a longer first pipe part 100 of a length l a = 55 cm and a shorter second pipe part 101 of the length l b = 45 cm . the pipe parts 100 , 101 can each be produced in a quantity of 4 , for example . for purposes of illustration , the measured pipe length is provided as 185 cm and the dead area of the clamping means 12 is provided as 10 cm . fig6 a shows the pipe parts 100 , 101 with their initial and final geometries . the first pipe part 100 has a 90 ° separating cut at the initial geometry 102 and a 45 ° separating cut at the final geometry 103 . the second pipe part 101 has a 45 ° separating cut at the initial geometry 104 and a 63 ° separating cut at the final geometry 105 . since the final geometries 103 , 105 of the two pipe parts 100 , 101 represent an inclined section other than 90 °, both pipe parts 100 , 101 are not “ cuttable .” a pipe part is defined as cuttable when there is no contour cut in the dead area of the clamping means 12 and the final geometry of the pipe part represents a 90 ° separating cut and coincides with the pipe end . fig6 b shows the four different arrangements 106 to 109 of the two pipe parts 110 , 101 below one another : arrangement 106 shows two longer pipe parts 100 , arrangement 107 shows a longer 100 and a shorter pipe part 101 , arrangement 108 shows a shorter 101 and a longer pipe part 100 and arrangement 109 shows two shorter pipe parts 101 . the feasible displacements and / or rotations between the pipe parts 100 , 101 are calculated within the scope of the preparatory calculation ( steps s 23 and s 24 ). with a pipe diameter of 10 cm , the following example displacements are obtained : x aa = 0 cm , x ab = 10 cm , x ba = 0 cm and x bb = 5 cm . when a first pipe part 100 is disposed behind a first or second pipe part 100 , 101 ( arrangements 106 , 108 ), displacement is not possible due to the 90 ° separating cut as initial geometry 102 ( x aa = x ba = 0 cm ) and the occupied pipe part length of the pipe part 100 cannot be reduced . when a second pipe part 101 is disposed behind a first pipe part 100 ( arrangement 107 ), the occupied pipe part length of the second pipe part 101 is reduced by x ab = 10 cm to 35 cm . when two shorter pipe parts 101 are disposed one behind the other ( arrangement 109 ), the occupied pipe part length of the second pipe part 101 is reduced by x bb = 5 cm , i . e . to 40 cm . fig6 c , d show how the pipe allocation variants for steps s 28 and s 31 are determined by means of tree structures 110 , 111 , wherein fig6 c shows the pipe allocation variants on the basis of the longer first pipe part 100 and fig6 d shows the pipe allocation variants on the basis of the shorter second pipe part 101 . pipe allocation variants , in which the occupied pipe length exceeds the measured overall length of the pipe are highlighted in grey , all pipe allocation variants highlighted in white represent one possible pipe allocation variant . the dead area of the clamping means 12 must be taken into consideration when checking whether a pipe allocation variant is possible . at first , it is checked whether the occupied pipe length of a pipe allocation variant is smaller or equal to the measured pipe length reduced by the dead area ( reduced pipe length ). when the result of the test is negative , and the last pipe part is a cuttable pipe part , it is checked whether the occupied pipe length is smaller or equal to the measured pipe length . a pipe part is cuttable when there is no contour cut in the dead area of the clamping means 12 and the final geometry of the pipe part represents a 90 ° separating cut and coincides with the pipe end . the property “ cuttable ” is determined by the programmer during creation of the nc parts program . for determining a first pipe allocation variant for step s 28 , the longer pipe part 100 is arranged next to one another until the desired quantity of the pipe part 100 has been arranged on the pipe or the reduced pipe length of the pipe has been exceeded . with a reduced pipe length of 175 cm , it is possible to arrange three longer pipe parts 100 one after another , for the fourth pipe part 100 one obtains an occupied pipe length of 220 cm such that the reduced pipe length is exceeded . the fourth longer pipe part 100 is removed and replaced by a shorter pipe part 101 . since this pipe allocation variant also exceeds the reduced pipe length of the pipe and the pipe part 101 is not cuttable , the pipe allocation variant 112 with three longer pipe parts 100 is the first pipe allocation variant that is used in step s 28 . in order to determine further pipe allocation variants for step s 31 , the third longer pipe part 100 in the pipe allocation variant 113 is replaced by a shorter pipe part 101 which results in an occupied pipe length of 145 cm . when a first pipe part 100 or a second pipe part 101 is arranged therebehind , the occupied pipe lengths are 200 cm or 185 cm , i . e . more than the reduced pipe length of 175 cm . when all possible pipe allocation variants 112 , 113 with two pipe parts 100 have been determined , the second longer pipe part 100 is replaced by a shorter pipe part 101 . the tree structure 110 is subsequently supplemented by adding the pipe parts 100 , 101 and one obtains further pipe allocation variants 114 , 115 . when all possible pipe allocation variants 112 to 115 that are based on the longer first pipe part 100 have been calculated in fig6 c , all pipe allocation variants 116 to 119 in fig6 d are determined on the basis of the shorter second pipe part 101 . the tree structures 110 , 111 enable that only the last possible pipe allocation variant of one branch is used as further pipe allocation variant in step s 31 and must be compared with the best pipe allocation in step s 32 ( sum of pipe parts ) and in step s 33 ( occupied pipe length ), since the pipe allocation variants of the branch disposed above have a smaller sum of pipe parts . the best pipe allocation for the example of fig6 a - d is the pipe allocation variant 115 consisting of a longer first pipe part 100 and three shorter second pipe parts 101 with a sum of pipe parts of 190 cm and an occupied pipe length of 170 cm . the further pipe allocation variants consisting of a longer pipe part 100 and three shorter pipe parts 101 , wherein the longer pipe part 100 is disposed at the second , third or fourth position , have the same sum of pipe parts of 190 cm . the pipe allocation variants in which the longer first pipe part 100 is disposed at a second position ( pipe allocation variant 117 ) or third position ( pipe allocation variant 118 ), have an occupied pipe length of 175 cm each and are therefore larger than the occupied pipe length of the best pipe allocation . the “ best pipe allocation ” is characterized in that the sum of pipe parts is maximum and , with the same sum of pipe parts , the occupied pipe length is minimum . the pipe allocation variant in which the longer first pipe part 100 is disposed at a fourth position does not represent a feasible pipe allocation variant , since the occupied pipe length of 180 cm is larger than the reduced pipe length of 175 cm and the last pipe part 100 is not cuttable . a number of embodiments of the invention have been described . nevertheless , it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention . accordingly , other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims .
