By 
Ashley Collman 
PUBLISHED : 
09:56 EST , 27 January 2014 
UPDATED : 
17:11 EST , 27 January 2014 
A 19-year-old New York University student jumped 15 stories to his death from a dormitory early Monday morning and witnesses believe drugs were involved . 
Police identified Titan Lee-Hai from Port-of-Spain , Trinidad as the student who flung himself off the Third North Residence Hall in Manhattan 's East Village at 3:20 am . 
Shazim Khurshid , 19 , told the New York Post that it looked like Lee-Hai was on  a lot of drugs  . 
Fall or jump ? 19-year-old New York University freshman Titan Lee-Hai jumped off the Third North Residence Hall early Monday morning and a witness said it seemed like he was on  a lot of drugs  
 I was the last person to see him alive ,  Kurshid said .  I was in the elevator , and he just walked in and punched me in the face , and then he asked me where he was . He was naked when he walked in . So , it was pretty obvious he was not in his senses . He had no sense of where he was or what time it was .  
When he reached the top floor of the building , Lee-Hai opened a door which triggered the building 's fire alarm . 
After falling , he was taken to Bellevue hospital where he was pronounced dead . 
Police originally believed the death was a suicide , but now believe drugs were to blame and do n't know if Lee-Hai jumped or fell . 
Toxicology reports wo n't be available for several weeks . 
Loss : Lee-Hai was from Port-of-Spain , Trinidad . The university issued a statement late Monday morning expressing   deepest sympathies  for his family and friends 
In his system : Toxicology reports wo n't be available for several weeks . Shazim Khurshid , right , says Lee-Hai punched him out of the blue before boarding the elevator going up to the top floor 
University spokesman John Beckman issued a statement late Monday morning , saying :   It is with great sorrow that we report that a freshman was found in an interior courtyard in the residence hall where he lived .  
Mr Beckman said that the student 's death seemed to be the result of a fall , but that police and University officials are investigating what led up to the event to determine the exact cause . 
  The University expresses its deepest sympathies to the family and loved ones of this young man ; they are in our hearts and our prayers this morning ,  Mr Beckman said . 
A fellow freshman who lives in the dorm said the fire alarm went off around the same time the man jumped . 
  We were evacuated from the building at around 3:15 . My friends said they saw a body lying in the courtyard . It 's sad ,  she told the Post . 
Today marked the first day of the Spring 
2014 semester . Crisis counselors were brought in to provide support to 
grieving students this morning . 
Barred : The university installed special gold bars to prevent students from jumping off the upper floor 's of the school 's library after a string of suicides in the 2003-2004 academic year 
The top 50 college has received a 
reputation for its high suicide rate after a string of four deaths in 
the 2003-2004 academic year . 
This prompted the school to install special gold bars on the atrium of Bobst Library where many of the suicides occurred . 
Students 
have argued that while the bars stop suicides from happening in the 
library , the university is n't doing a good enough job at addressing the 
root of the issue . 
In an opinion piece published in the student newspaper 
a week after the library bars installation , Emma Dolhai argued that the 
screen would n't stop determined students from finding a way to commit 
suicide . 
  All the screens really do is ensure that some of -LSB- the suicides -RSB- are quieter . Screens simply do not prevent self-destruction , in the same way that building prisons does not lower crime rates ,  Ms Dolhai wrote . 
She pointed out that the wait in the university 's Wellness Center to see a counselor can be 15 minutes to half an hour and involves a mountain of paperwork . 
  The lack of effective health care for the struggling verges on the absurd . NYU Wellness seems to operate on the mantra that a student must make a conscious , devoted effort in order to receive help . Those struggling with suicide , however , are often the last to come forward of their own free will ,  she said . 
According to the Suicide Prevention Resource Center , suicide is the third leading cause of death among young adults ages 18-24 . 
No studies currently track suicide rates at the nation 's colleges , but many campus professionals believe it to be the second leading cause of death among students . 
For support on suicide matters call the National Suicide Prevention Help Line on 1-800-273-8255 or go to www.suicidepreventionlifeline.org . 
NYU has its own 24/7 mental health and crisis intervention program which can be reached at 212-443-9999 or wellness.exchange@nyu.edu . 
In the UK , please contact The Samaritans at 08457 90 90 90 or via email to jo@samaritans.org . 
