By 
Rajvir Rai 
Follow @@ R_Rai 
Fulham 's decision to splash # 11million on Ross McCormack has led to much head scratching and a few raised eyebrows . 
Sure the Scottish international was the leading scorer in the Championship last season with 28 goals , but considering Tottenham spent the same on Christian Eriksen , it seems Fulham have certainly paid over the odds for the 27-year-old striker . 
Here Sportsmail looks at other attacking players Fulham could have spent their money on . 
VIDEO Scroll down to watch Sportsmail 's Top 10 Ross McCormack transfer virals 
Big money move : Ross McCormack , 27 , has cost Fulham a whopping # 11million 
Christian Eriksen -LRB- Ajax to Tottenham - # 11m -RRB- 
Midfield maestro : Christian Eriksen -LRB- right -RRB- has impressed for Tottenham since signing from Ajax 
One of the best young players in Europe , Eriksen announced himself to English audiences with a man-of-the-match performance in a 2-1 friendly defeat against England in 2011 . 
Michu -LRB- Rayo Vallecano to Swansea - # 2m -RRB- 
Spanish sensation : Michu took the Premier League by storm during his first season , scoring 18 goals 
Relatively unknown outside of Spain before his move to Wales in 2012 , the midfielder-turned-striker hit the ground running with 18 league goals in his debut season to help Swansea qualify for Europe . His second season was less impressive as he only scored twice in 17 appearances . 
Rickie Lambert -LRB- Southampton to Liverpool - # 4m -RRB- 
Going red : Rickie Lambert is fulfilling a childhood dream with his move from Southampton to Liverpool 
The striker scored 13 goals for Southampton last season and impressed with his general all-round play . He earned himself a call up to the England squad for the World Cup and a move to boyhood club Liverpool earlier this summer . 
Christian Benteke -LRB- Genk to Aston Villa - # 7m -RRB- 
Sharp shooter : Christian Benteke -LRB- left -RRB- scored 19 Premier League goals during his first season in England 
Blessed with pace and power , Benteke proved an astute signing by Villa as he found the net 19 times in the Premier League - breaking the club record for the most league goals in a season . His second season in England was cut short by an Achilles injury that ruled him out for sixth months and the World Cup . 
Jordan Rhodes -LRB- Huddersfield to Blackburn - # 8m -RRB- 
High flyer : Jordan Rhodes has excelled for Blackburn since signing from Huddersfield two seasons ago 
The prolific striker has scored more than 20 goals in all competitions in his last five seasons - and since moving to Ewood Park has scored 52 times in just 96 games . His consistency led to a call up to the Scotland squad in 2011 , and prior to moving to Blackburn he was linked with several Premier League clubs . 
Philippe Coutinho -LRB- Inter Milan to Liverpool - # 8.5 m -RRB- 
Creative spark : Philippe Coutinho -LRB- right -RRB- celebrates scoring Liverpool against Manchester City last season 
The Brazilian midfielder may have been overlooked for Brazil 's World Cup squad , but he has impressed at Anfield with his eye for a pass and trickery . Eight Premier League goals in his first season was also a decent return for the 22 year old . 
Javier Hernandez -LRB- Guadalajara to Manchester United - # 7m -RRB- 
Spot on : Javier Hernandez scores for Manchester United against Fulham in the Capital One Cup 
Hernandez - or   Little Pea  - has earned a reputation as the ultimate supersub during his time in England . With blistering pace and quick reactions , the striker has scored vital goals coming off the bench that have changed games . Yet to be seen how much he would score playing regularly . 
Jay Rodriguez -LRB- Burnley to Southampton - # 6m -RRB- 
National service : Jay Rodriguez was in contention to go to the World Cup before injury ruled him out 
Rodriguez scored 15 goals last season and was in contention to be part of Roy Hodgson 's World Cup before being ruled out with a anterior cruciate ligament injury . Adept at playing off either flank or down the middle as a striker , Rodriguez has become a key player for Southampton . 
Lukas Podolski -LRB- FC Cologne to Arsenal - # 11m -RRB- 
Gunning for you : Lukas Podolski in action for Arsenal against Newcastle 
With more than 100 caps for Germany and a CV that includes three World Cups , a European Championship runners up medal and a Bundesliga title , Podolski is one of Europe 's most experienced and accomplished players . Critics would say he needs to score more goals but rarely plays as a central striker for Arsenal . 
Mario Mandzukic -LRB- Wolfsburg to Bayern Munich - # 11m -RRB- 
Lethal : Mario Mandzukic celebrates scoring against Manchester United in Champions League quarter final 
The Croatian striker scored twice in a 4-0 win over Cameroon at the World Cup but has fallen down the pecking order at Bayern Munich and has been linked with a move to the Premier League , with Manchester United , Chelsea and Arsenal all interested . 
PS It 's not all doom and gloom for skeptical Fulham fans because they can at least take comfort in the fact McCormack was cheaper than Konstantinos Mitroglou , who signed for Fulham on deadline-day from Olympiacos for # 12.4 m. 
Three Bugatti Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse -LRB- # 3m each -RRB- 
9,573 cruises around the world -LRB- # 1,149 -RRB- 
226 nights in world 's most expensive hotel suite -LRB- # 48,660 per night -RRB- 
68,750 pairs of adidas predator instinct boots -LRB- # 160 -RRB- 
1,326 return flights between London and New York on Concorde 
