It was one of the biggest days for the Prime Minister as he unveiled plans for the Tory government after the 2015 election at the party 's conference today . 
So as his number one cheerleader , his wife Samantha made sure she dressed up for the occasion . 
Perhaps fittingly , as her husband promised to scrap income tax , Samantha opted for an austerity-busting high street dress by Hobbs . 
Scroll down for video 
Lady in lilac : Samantha Cameron joined her husband on stage at the Conservative party conference wearing a # 99 Hobbs dress and grey court shoes 
The lilac Penrose Wrap dress retails for # 149 , but is currently in the online sale for # 99 . She teamed the dress with grey court shoes from LK Bennett and a healthy glow . 
It was an emotional day for Samantha , who was moved to tears when her husband made a passionate defence of the NHS , which cared for their late son Ivan , who died in 2009 , attacking Labour for peddling   lies  about Tory plans for the health service . 
Samantha then took to the stage to congratulate her husband on his speech , within which he put two major tax cuts at the heart of his bid for re-election . 
First lady of fashion : Samantha 's Penrose Wrap dress retails for # 149 , but is currently in the online sale for # 99 
Support system : Samantha then took to the stage to congratulate her husband on his speech , within which he put two major tax cuts at the heart of his bid for re-election 
Emotional : Samantha was moved to tears when her husband made a passionate defence of the NHS , which cared for their late son Ivan 
Yesterday , she look chic in an on-trend black midi skirt , paired with a khaki silk blouse and black heels as she arrived to watch her husband rehearse . 
The warm September sunshine enabled her to go bare-legged and without a coat , although she held a black scarf in her hand as she made her way into the hotel . 
On arrival in Birmingham , however , Samantha , 43 , embraced a more androgynous style than today . 
Here for you : Samantha was keen to support her husband ahead of today 's conference 
All smiles : Samantha was beaming with pride as she escorted David at today 's conference 
Wearing a pinstriped blue and white shirt , not dissimilar to the one her husband David was sporting , dark cord trousers and navy heels , the mother-of-three exuded an understated yet chic style . 
While fashion editors have quietly been championing mannish shirts for months , are we ready for cords to make a comeback from the 90s ? 
Christopher Tennant , style writer at the Wall Street Journal , said :   Banish all thoughts of preppy high-schoolers and '70s flares . Corduroy is cultivating a more refined air . 
Trendsetter ? Samantha Cameron is well-known in the industry for her sartorial wardrobe choices and as she arrived with husband David ahead of the Conservative Party Conference in Birmingham , she rocked an androgynous style 
It 's a man 's world : Crisp tailored shirts and trousers have been the fash-pack 's wardrobe essentials so far this season and it seems that Mrs Cameron has taken note 
  Corduroy can be groovily retro or preppy and professorial . It has a reputation as a bit of a workaday fabric , but good , 100 per cent cotton corduroy is like velvet in its richness and is fantastic to work with .  
Androgynous dressing is certainly the style de rigeur . The high street has witnessed sales of trouser suits soar by 157 per cent after recent awards ceremonies such as the Baftas and the Oscars , where fashion 's finest were championing the trend . 
Sophisticated Sam : Mrs Cameron opted for muted tones while attending David 's keynote to speech at the Conservative Party 's annual conference however she kept the outfit exciting with a daring flash of leg 
Style icons Cara Delevingne , Kourtney Kardashian , Madonna and Ellen Degeneres have been embracing the manly look since the start of the year and the red carpets were blanketed in ladies  tuxes . 
Androgynous dressing is back on the style agenda but that does n't mean you have to look manly . 
  Clean-lined suits with cuts in the right places can look feminine and flattering as shown at Jil Sander , Tods and Versace ,  said fashion blogger Lydia Faye Jones . 
Although the look has been a celebrity favourite on the red carpet , it has crossed over into everyday wear with sales of plain black and navy trouser suits up by 157 per cent along with white shirts increasing by 105 per cent at Debenhams . 
Clearly Samantha , who quickly became an ambassador for British style when husband David was made Prime Minister in May 2010 , is up-to-date with the trends -LRB- her sister does work for Vogue , after all -RRB- . 
She often wins over style critics for her love of mixing high end designer , such as Roksanda Ilincic , Erdem and Phillip Lim - with high street options such as Zara and L.K. Bennett . She also hosts a party at Downing Street every season to celebrate London fashion week , with this year 's esteemed guests including Cara Delevingne and Kate Moss . 
Shaking up her style : Samantha is well known for mixing high street with high-end and chops and changes between a more masculine style , left , and feminine dresses , right 
Frow : Samantha Cameron sitting on the front row at the Erdem SS13 show 
Friends in high places : Natalie Massenet -LRB- C -RRB- MBE , Caroline Rush -LRB- R -RRB- CEO of BFC and Samantha Cameron -LRB- L -RRB- , celebrate a year of British Fashion 
