By 
Mark Duell and Rachel Quigley 
UPDATED : 
07:49 EST , 23 August 2011 
The police officer who was filmed collapsing after he was shot in the neck was taking on a gunman who had killed his own daughter , it has emerged . 
The policeman has now been named as 28-year-old Jarred Slocum who worked in the city of El Cajon , east of San Diego in California . 
He is in critical but stable condition after he was filmed clutching his bleeding neck and collapsing after being hit in the stand off with Kevin Collier , 32 . 
Collier , 32 , from San Diego , is suspected of shooting his baby daughter and leaving her body in the trunk of his car shortly before he shot a policeman in the head , critically wounding him . 
His body was found inside his house , which he burned down during the standoff , where he is also believed to have shot his mother-in-law Beverly Rakov , 51 . 
Scroll down for video 
Stand-off : Two cops were responding to a call from neighbours claiming a man was brandishing a gun outside a house in El Cajon , California 
Running away : The suspect fired several shots when the officers arrived at the house on Sunday and one -LRB- pictured -RRB- was hit in the neck 
Collier is believed to have texted family and friends on Sunday telling the that he had killed his daughter and mother-in-law , police spokesman Lt Mark Coit said . 
The baby was found inside a truck the 32-year-old uses for work 
with a gunshot wound to the head , and authorities were trying to 
determine whether the girl was Collier 's one-year-old daughter Rhilee . 
Investigators are combing the charred 
debris of the home in El Cajon , a working-class city east of San Diego . 
They have so far found two bodies and are working to identify them . 
Burning : Police in San Diego County , California battle a blaze at a home in El Cajon where a gunman shot a police man and his daughter and mother-in-law 
Search : As firefighters grappled with the blaze , SWAT team officers looked for the gunman 
Heather Gooden , a friend of Mrs Rakov , 
told Fox she received a message early on Sunday in which she said 
her son-in-law had guns and she feared for her life . 
She said she received a message saying :  I have never been so scared in my life , Heather . He has guns . He 's 
gon na shoot my daughter . He has lost his f *** ing mind .  
Mrs Gooden said she sent repeated texts to her friend throughout the day but got no replies . 
Dramatic video : The officer can be seen on the video crouching and shooting before being hit and then running off with his hand on a wound 
To safety : The wounded officer -LRB- left -RRB- ran away and fell before being dragged to safety by a colleague , who was then joined by others 
The officer Collier shot today , 
Jarred Slocum , 28 , remains hospitalized in critical but stable condition 
after undergoing surgery for a gunshot wound to his forehead that 
fractured his skull . 
Officer Slocum and another police officer were responding to a call that a man was brandishing a gun outside a home in El Cajon . 
He fired a shot before grabbing hold of his neck and slumping against the fence with blood seeping from the wound . 
Minutes later smoke billowed from the 
home and firefighters fought to control the blaze with the help of 
helicopters who dumped water overhead . 
SWAT team members surrounded the 
property and officials evacuated nearby homes and shut down surrounding 
roads and freeways , unsure whether the gunman had escaped , according to 
Fox . 
Scene : Emergency and police vehicles block Prince Street in El Cajon , California as they search for Kevin Collier who is believed to have shot his daughter and mother-in-law 
They found the body of a man near the 
front of the home who they believe to be Collier but will need dental 
records to confirm because of the condition the body was in . 
His wife managed to escape and was safe . 
Mrs Gooden , 41 , arrived sobbing at 
the police tape cordoning off the homes . She said she has known the 
family for 30 years and never heard of any problems with violence . 
She said Mrs Rakov owned the home , 
and her daughter , Alyssa , and her husband and baby daughter had moved in 
after a job opportunity for Collier in New York fell through in 
December . 
She said she heard the couple had filed for divorce last week . 
Before that , she said , she never heard anything negative about Collier and that he appeared to be the perfect husband . 
At a recent baby shower , Collier was so affectionate that a family friend commented that they longed for  a man like that  . 
Pulled away : The officer , who has not been named , is in a critical condition 
Team effort : Others joined in to help the shot police officer after the incident 
  I saw about 30 police cars - it was like martial law in the streets . There was black roaring smoke in the sky , it was crazy , it just kept coming up . It was like a movie , it was surreal  
Neighbour Richard Ogunsalu 
Richard Ogunsalu , who lives nearby , was in the shower when he heard sirens and ran outside to see police everywhere and the house burning .  
  I saw about 30 police cars - it was like martial law in the streets ,  Mr Ogunsalu said . 
  There was black roaring smoke in the sky , it was crazy , it just kept coming up . It was like a movie , it was surreal .  
See video here 
WARNING : GRAPHIC CONTENT 
