the process and apparatus of the present invention are also suitable for use in aerobic processes and other processes such as therapeutic processes advantageously employing oxygen containing liquids .
as used throughout the specification and the claims “ therapeutic ” processes involve the oxygenation of the body or its parts by treatment with an agent in a liquid vehicle containing dissolved oxygen .
suitably aerobic processes in which water oxygenated in accordance with the present invention can be employed include , for example , processes in which heretofore water has been aerated such as by bubbling air thereinto , and also in situ or ex situ bioremediation of contaminated ( e .
in view of the particularly good oxygen retention of liquids oxygenated by the present invention kept in containers , a particularly advantageous new aerobic use of those liquids was discovered .
the rate at which oxygen can be introduced into the biomass is a substantial limiting factor on how quickly a breakdown by oxygenation can be achieved .
the problem with known process technologies is that oxygen introduction by aeration is highly inefficient because air contains only 21 % percent oxygen .
the increased density can be described using the term “ cluster factor ” , that can be defined by relative density to double distilled water minus 1 .
concrete examples thereof in which the liquid can be used include a non drug product , a skin care product , a makeup product , a hair care product , fragrance , a body care product , an oral care product and the like .
, oxygenated microcluster water ) can be designed as a delivery system to deliver hydration , oxygenation , nutrition , medications and increasing overall cellular performance and exchanging liquids in the cell and removing edema .
the dosage of the water ( or oxygenated water ) will depend upon many factors recognized in the art , which are commonly modified and adjusted .
, a compound that imparts a sweet taste but does not increase the blood glucose levels of the patient ) .
