a detailed description of a drive system for a moving walkway formed according to the invention will be made below , and it must be understood that the described concepts are equally applicable to moving stairs and other conveyor systems .
the output shaft of the reducer 3 moves in each case the gear wheel 4 which in turn drives the horizontal drive chains 1 .
these chains carry deformable rollers 5 engaging with opposing housings that the plates 6 of the moving walkway have on the rear surface .
fig4 and 5 show plan and perspective views of a horizontal drive chain horizontal for the drive system of the invention .
the chain includes the rollers 5 , formed from elastically deformable material and also carries arms 10 , aimed in the same direction as the rollers 5 and which will be useful as a drive means for the handrail , as will be described below .
fig6 shows a perspective view of one of the links 11 of the chains 1 with the elastically deformable rollers 5 and the arms 10 , which can be provided with a coating 12 based on materials selected from deformable and resilient materials , the handrail 7 being supported against such coating for its drive by friction , as shown in fig1 .
the rollers 5 engage in complementary cavities that the plates 6 of the walkway have at their back part when said plates run in coincidence with the section occupied by the drive chains 1 , as will be explained with reference to fig7 to 10 .
the drive chains 1 will be arranged such that the plates of the walkway are opposite to said chains along at least one straight section of the path of the belt , as has been shown in fig1 to 3 .
as can be seen in fig7 and 8 , when the plates 6 of the walkway run in coincidence with the drive chains 1 , the rollers 5 are coupled in complementary cavities that the plates 6 have at their back part , mutually engaging to be useful as a drive means for said plates .
the rod 14 projects at the lower part and has assembled therein a wheel 16 supported on a guide 17 acting as a cam for moving the rod 14 in an upward direction until coupling it with the cavity 13 of the plates 6 , when such plates run above the rollers 5 .
as has been indicated above , the different plates of the walkway can be independent , moving by thrust from the plates 6 engaged with the drive chain 1 , or they can linked to one another by means of shafts 21 perpendicular to the direction of movement of the walkway .
