support part 2 comprises a substantially cylindrical tube provided at its front end with an annular rim 5 having an axial bore 6 .
projecting from the lower region of the cylindrical support part 2 is a hollow cylindrical part 14 whose axis is orthogonal to the support part 2 and in which there may be accomodated an ignition key switch of known type ( not shown ) and a steering lock device ( of known type ) which controls the engagement and disengagement of a latch 15 with a steering wheel hub 16 .
projecting from the rear end of the cylindrical support part 2 are two side projections 18 which are bent orthogonally toward the outside and in the ends of which there are formed two longitudinal slots 19 in which there are accomodated , with a possibility of adjustment , the two screws 4 which serve to fix to the two projections 18 to the respective vertical projections 20 of the support part 3 .
support part 3 , instead of being die cast , is conveniently made of a shaped sheet plate having a substantially rectangular planar central portion 22 which is bent upwardly at its front end so as to define a horizontal portion 23 at a level higher than the central portion 22 , and from the front end of which two projections 20 extend downwardly .
at its rear end the central portion 22 is bent upwards , thus forming a wall 24 which and a rearwardly projecting vertical part 25 to there is fixed , for example by welding , the front region of a support part 26 , made of plate , which at its rear edge is bent upwards and is provided with two projections 27 for the attachment , by known means ( not shown ) , of an instrument and control device carrier assembly ( shown by a chain line ) .
originating from the rear region of the plane central portion 22 and the wall 24 are a vertical wall 31 and a plane wall 32 , and this latter , in combination with the plane portion 23 , defines a bearing horizontal for a board 33 of an electric interconnection group for the control devices , instruments and accessory elements of the vehicle .
the said board 33 , which is fixed to the wall 32 and to the portion 23 by means of screws 35 , carries ( in a known manner not shown ) a printed circuit , a plurality of fuse carrier elements with their respective fuses , and a plurality of connectors for the electric connection of the various control devices , instruments and accessory elements , in particular the instrument and control device carrier assembly 28 , to the electric control blocks 12 and to the ignition switch housed within on part 14 .
the assembling of the support group 1 constructed according to the present invention is carried out as follows .
for the actual mounting of the support group in the vehicle , cylindrical support part 2 is fitted around a tube 40 forming a part of a steering column 41 of the vehicle , until the front end of the said tube 40 comes to rest on the inner surface of the annular rim 5 of the part 2 .
the position of the support part 3 is then adjusted relative to the part 2 by means of the screws 4 which are housed in the slots 19 , in such a manner that the central planar portion 22 of the support part 3 will rest on a central portion 42 of a body bracket 43 , which has two shaped side portions of u shaped cross section ( one of which is shown in fig1 ) and is fixed in its rear region to a transversely disposed wall 44 of a body crosspiece 45 corresponding to the dashboard of the vehicle .
connected to the central portion 42 of the body bracket 43 is a wall 65 whose end is fixed in the upper region of the body crosspiece 45 .
