this present patent application pertains to a use of a coal tar formulation , in combination with other named and related ingredients to help sustain the hair shaft & # 39 ; s growth cycle in the anagen phase and assist in the formation of new shafts .
the exact mechanism by which this is accomplished is not known by the inventor , however , the medicinal affects of coal tar for the treatment of psoriasis have been well established , as discussed above , and are known to have a metabolic effect on skin cells , including the epidermal layer of the scalp .
the remaining ingredients assist in the delivery of the liquor carbonis detergens to the dermal papilla by acting as fat / oil emollients , stimulants , and other supporting agents as discussed below .
it is hypothesized that any one of several biochemical cellular and molecular disturbances that occur during the anagen phase or catagen phase of subjects with androgenic alopecia are corrected or improved metabolically either in the functioning or formation of the stem cells , their migration process or during the mitosis phase of keratin production within the follicular papilla and matrix .
liquor carbonis detergens ( an alcohol extract of crude coal tar ) is traditionally characterized as a thin lubricant and moisturizing agent capable of mechanically separating epithelial cells resulting in a loosening and softening ( also called desquamation ) of skin scales and crusts softens the scales and crusts , and helps correct abnormalities of keratinization by decreasing epidermal proliferation and dermal infiltration .
liquor carbonis detergens also has antiseptic qualities derived from its substituted phenols and works as a minor irritant , stimulating the capillaries to increase blood flow to the follicular papilla .
lcd may function as an inhibitor of enzyme catalytic activity in a number of ways .
among them , lcd could either degrade , polarize , or cause physical or chemical changes to enzymes such that their effect upon the cells of the follicular papilla and elsewhere becomes diminished .
since enzymes are also denatured by changes to the ph level , it is possible that coal tar alters the ph level in the dermal papilla ( where enzymes are active ) from the normal neutral to slightly alkaline state ( 7 .
1 ) to a more acidic level , thereby compromising the functioning of the androgen enzymes which are believed by many to be responsible for alopecia .
coal tar has long been known to block cell uptake of vitamin d which , in turn , permits penetration of uv light radiation as a therapy for psoriasis and shingles .
