fig1 shows an endoscope system that comprises a small video camera 20 which may be a monocular camera or a stereo camera .
the objective lens system is designed to collect or form an image of an area under inspection in front of window 26 and to focus that image on the light receiving surface of the ccd .
the objective lens system may comprise one or more lenses and its lens or lenses may , but need not , be contained in a protective tubular casing ( not shown ) that fits within and is anchored to inner tube 22 .
the annular space between the two tubes 22 and 24 is occupied by a plurality of optical fibers 34 which serve the purpose of transmitting light to the region in front of window 26 .
it should be noted that fig6 is illustrative only and that the number of electrical conductors and optical fibers may be more or less than what is shown in that figure .
light guide cable 52 preferably comprises a single relatively large diameter optical fiber encased in a protective flexible sheath and the camera cable 54 comprises a number of electrical conductors encased in a protective flexible sheath .
each of the electrical conductors of camera cable 54 is connected to a different one of the electrical conductors that make up the electrical cable 43 .
the proximal end of camera cable 54 is connected to a multi pin plug in type electrical connector 56 while the proximal end of light guide cable 52 is connected to a plug in type light guide connector 58 .
connector 56 is used to connect the camera cable to a video controller 60 that is adapted to receive the video signals generated by the ccd and utilize same to generate a video image on a video monitor ( not shown ) .
in this preferred embodiment support shaft 64 is malleable in the sense that it can be bent manually to a selected shape and will retain that shape until it is reformed manually to its original or a different shape .
it should be noted that in fig5 the gap between rod 70 and the bore 69 is exaggerated for purposes of illustration and that in practice rod 70 makes a tight fit in bore 69 and may be bonded to rod 66 .
