referring now to the drawings in detail wherein like reference numerals have been used throughout the various figures to designate like elements , there is shown in fig1 a catheter constructed in accordance with the principles of the present invention and designated generally as 10 .
as should be readily apparent to those skilled in the art , only the working portion of the catheter 10 is shown in the drawings .
carried on the working portion of the flexible member 12 of the catheter 10 are first , second , and third spaced apart electrode arrays , the details of which will be described hereinafter .
electrical wires ( not shown ) from the electrode arrays pass through the interior of the flexible member 12 to a manifold secured to the remote end of the flexible member 12 for connecting the catheter 10 to appropriate electronic equipment .
located adjacent the proximal end 14 is the first electrode array .
the array includes approximately ten electrodes 18 a 18 j where each electrode has an approximate length of five millimeters and each electrode is spaced approximately five millimeters away from each adjacent electrode .
a steering arrangement known in the art may be associated with the catheter 10 in order to direct the placement of the electrode arrays .
in order to perform a defibrillation procedure , the flexible member 12 is introduced into the vascular system from the jugular area in a manner known in the art .
this is accomplished by connecting the contact pin ( not shown ) at the proximal end of the proximal lead ( not shown ) attached to the first and second electrode arrays and the contact pin ( not shown ) of the distal lead of the third electrode array to an appropriate power source .
thereafter , low energy electrical current is supplied through the electrical leads to the corresponding electrode arrays in order to achieve a normal sinus rhythm in the patient .
the polarity of the arrays can be reversed to attempt lower defibrillation thresholds in certain patients .
