referring now to the drawings and to fig1 in particular there is shown a truck antilock diagnostic system 10 using a diagnostic communications interface unit 12 according to the present invention .
ten of the leds provide a diagnostic check of the abs / atc and the other two leds are used to indicate that the dci has a power source and that a communications link is established .
the ecu 14 which comprises a part of the larger electronic diagnostic system 10 is housed within an enclosure which is mounted on the truck chassis .
the speed sensors are normally wheel speed sensors mounted at the vehicle wheels .
such sensors are conventional , and provide a pulsed output which is transmitted to the ecu 14 , the frequency of the pulses being proportional to wheel velocity .
the ecu 14 processes the signals received from the speed sensors and generates output signals which control one or more brake pressure modulators .
the brake pressure modulators are know in the art and are also conventional .
the brake pressure modulators are adapted to decrease and thereafter increase braking pressure in response to impending wheel lockup conditions detected by the ecu 14 in response to the signals generated by the speed sensors .
one or more discrete leds is provided for each of the possible faults detected , so that the mechanic servicing the vehicle can immediately tell , by examining the status of the leds on dci 12 which of the components of the system is malfunctioning .
since many of the malfunctions sensed by the aforementioned diagnostics are of a transient or temporary nature , and which are eliminated when the system powers down upon vehicle shutoff , a non volatile random access memory in the ecu 14 is provided to store the faults detected by the aforementioned diagnostics , so that upon powerup when the vehicle is started the same leds are again activated as were activated immediately before shut down and are transmitted to the dci 12 unit .
a reset switch 15 , as shown in fig2 on the dci 12 is connected to reset the light emitting diodes when the vehicle has been serviced and the faults no longer exist .
