a boot 20 with an attached crampon or terrain engaging cleat 22 is secured to the snowshoe by a front harness assembly of the snowshoe , generally identified by 24 .
the decking areas 14 , 16 and 18 in this preferred embodiment are retained to the snowshoe frame 12 by sections of decking material which extend around the frame and are riveted together to the main body of decking , as at 30 , for example , and as shown in u .
as fig2 reveals , the snowshoe 10 has a front harness assembly 24 , preferably pivotable about a horizontal axis which can be provided by one or more resilient straps 32 wrapped around the frame and retaining the harness assembly preferably in a toe down biased position , as shown in u .
however , the front harness and pivot assembly is without a front claw or cleat , nor does the snowshoe have any rear cleat .
instead , the open areas 28 and 26 provide space for a user wearing a boot and a crampon such as the crampon 22 to step into the snowshoe and lock the crampon to the snowshoe , after which the teeth of the crampon can be used as front and rear cleats for the snowshoe .
the opposed crampon teeth 40 have inclined front surfaces so as to extend under tip structure 44 at each side of the front end of the mounting plate , the tip structures comprising a front bar across the front end of the plate 38 .
the clearance 42 at each side of the front end of the harness plate is shown as formed between the tip structure 44 and a wing extension 60 at each side , spaced back from the tips 44 .
at the rear end of the harness plate 38 are a pair of arms 68 , each of which has a tab 69 at its end , to be bent upward approximately at right angles along a line indicated by dashes 70 in fig5 .
in this position the frame or deck 50 of the crampon is against the upper surface of the harness plate 38 .
the crampon teeth generally surround the plate 38 , by which is meant that teeth extend down alongside the plate at least at front and sides .
fig7 shows a cleat plate or base plate 82 which is a principal component of the terrain engaging cleat or crampon 80 shown in fig8 .
