the invention will now be described , purely by way of non limiting example , with reference to the appended drawings comprising figures numbered from 1 to 11 which show schematically the production sequence of a product according to the invention , as well as a fig1 , which corresponds to a section taken on the line xii xii of fig1 , on a slightly enlarged scale .
although the reference to a substance such as chocolate indicates a preferred solution , it should in no way be interpreted as limiting of the scope of the invention .
this also applies in particular to the use of the term & # 34 ; chocolate & # 34 ; which should not be interpreted herein as being limited exclusively to compositions which can be called chocolate within the meaning of the standards for food products which are in force in some countries .
the term chocolate used herein as indicative of a mouldable substance , should therefore be interpreted as including any product or substance having rheological characteristics similar or substantially comparable to those of chocolate .
these are techniques widely known in the confectionery industry and a detailed description of their characteristics is therefore unnecessary in this context .
the half shell 1 preferably has , in its top or polar portion , for reasons which will become clearer from the following a recessed portion 2 , which can best be seen and is more noticeable in the section of fig1 , produced by means of a corresponding shape of the mould .
this operation is performed by means normally used in the confectionery industry , which do not need to be described herein .
fig4 shows in detail the structure of the other element which , together with the half shell 1 , forms the shell of the product according to the invention .
this is a half shell 5 made of wafer and preferably has a generally basin or cup like shape .
within the half shell 5 , which is formed by normal wafer production techniques , it is therefore possible to distinguish a generally flat base wall 6 and an approximately frusto conical peripheral or skirt wall 7 the mouth of which has diametral dimensions substantially corresponding to the diametral dimensions of the mouth of the half shell 1 made of a mouldable substance .
it can be appreciated from fig4 in particular that the rim of the mouth of the skirt wall 7 of the half shell 5 is preferably produced by a cutting operation performed in a plane parallel to the general plane of the base wall 6 .
