the assemblies 4 , 6 and 8 are generally similar in that each provides a controlled , resilient resistance to reciprocating movement of a piston that responds to forces in excess of a threshold force and over a flexion range of a contained resilient member and / or material .
the assembly 4 includes a spring that biases movement of the piston and is shown in greater detail in the exploded assembly drawing of fig2 .
either of the assemblies 4 or 6 may also be constructed with a closed hydraulic or pneumatic chamber that provides a resilient reciprocating motion to a contained piston .
the main sail lines 10 are anchored to the aft end of the sailboat 2 .
depending upon the size of the main sail 13 , the lines 10 can be controlled with one or more pulleys 24 in a block and tackle arrangement to obtain a desired mechanical advantage .
the length of the lines 10 are varied to control the orientation of the main boom 18 and main sail 13 relative to the main mast 26 .
the two mountings are shown in fig1 with respect to the different mounting positions of the assemblies 6 , it being appreciated that either of these mounting positions can be replicated on the other side of the sail .
in the one instance , as shown with respect to the background assembly 6 , both assemblies 6 can be mounted in close association to the jib / genoa 14 with the trailing lines 12 being secured to the port and starboard gunwales in conventional fashion .
in the other instance , as shown with respect to the foreground assembly 6 , both assemblies 6 can be mounted closer to and / or be directly anchored to the port and starboard gunwales .
that is , the assembly 6 can be directly attached to the jib / genoa sail 14 and the rigging lines 12 can be secured to the opposite end of the assembly 6 and be routed to the port and starboard gunwales .
in certain circumstances , the boom 18 can be used in lieu of the housing 17 and with only an end stop 82 secured to the in the boom to limit motion of the associated resilient member .
