the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings , in which exemplary embodiments of the invention are shown .
the invention may , however , be embodied in different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein .
rather , these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete , and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art .
the mixer and disperser head 1 comprises a tubular cylindrical mixing chamber 4 preferably made of stainless steel and having a circular cross section and a central axis 5 .
the cylindrical mixing chamber 4 is coaxial with and rigidly connected to the drive shaft 2 .
spaced equally angularly through the peripheral wall of the mixing chamber 4 in the middle region thereof are provided a plurality of discharge openings .
connected to the upper planar rim of mixing chamber 4 by weldings such as at 7 is a first set of impeller blades 8 preferably made of stainless steel .
connected to the lower rim of the mixing chamber 4 is a second plurality of equally angularly spaced impeller blades 12 at the other axial end of said mixing chamber 3 .
the leading edge 10 of each of said first plurality of impeller blades 8 forms part of a first shear part , the radially inner end thereof being rigidly connected to said drive shaft 2 , e .
the illustrated embodiment of a mixer and disperser head 1 further comprises a plurality of equally angularly spaced shear arms 19 situated completely outside the mixing chamber 4 and radially extending from said drive shaft 2 .
this cutting action reduces large agglomerates in the material and therefore effectively provides an initial coarse shear zone in addition to the shear zone provided by the mixing chamber 4 with the plurality of discharge openings 6 in its peripheral wall , thereby providing a mixer and disperser head 1 exerting improved hydraulic and mechanical shear to the substances to be mixed or dispersed .
