Secure Access to IP Multimedia Services Using Generic Bootstrapping Architecture (GBA) for 3G & Beyond Mobile Networks
Abstract
The IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) defined by Third Generation 
Partnership Projects (3GPP and 3GPP2) is a technology designed 
to provide robust multimedia services across roaming boundaries 
and over diverse access technologies with promising features like 
quality-of-service (QoS), reliability and security. The IMS defines 
an overlay service architecture that merges the paradigms and 
technologies of the Internet with the cellular and fixed 
telecommunication worlds. Its architecture enables the efficient 
provision of an open set of potentially highly integrated 
multimedia services, combining web browsing, email, instant 
messaging, presence, VoIP, video conferencing, application 
sharing, telephony, unified messaging, multimedia content 
delivery, etc. on top of possibly different network technologies. 
As such IMS enables various business models for providing 
seamless business and consumer multimedia applications. In this 
communication converged world, the challenging issues are 
security, quality of service (QoS) and management & 
administration. In this paper our focus is to manage secure access 
to multimedia services and applications based on SIP and HTTP 
on top of IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS). These services include 
presence, video conferencing, messaging, video broadcasting, and 
push to talk etc. We will utilize Generic Bootstrapping 
Architecture (GBA) model to authenticate multimedia 
applications before accessing these multimedia services offered by 
IMS operators. We will make enhancement in GBA model to 
access these services securely by introducing Authentication 
Proxy (AP) which is responsible to implement Transport Layer 
Security (TLS) for HTTP and SIP communication. This research 
work is part of Secure Service Provisioning (SSP) Framework for 
IP Multimedia System at Fokus Fraunhofer IMS 3Gb Testbed.

Categories and Subject Descriptors
C.2 [Computer-Communication Networks]: C.2.0 General - 
Security and protection; C.2.1 Network Architecture and Design; 
C.2.3 Network Operation.


General Terms
Algorithms, Management, Design, Reliability, Experimentation, 
Security, Standardization, Verification.
