An Analytical Model Based on G/M/1 with Self-Similar Input to Provide End-to-End QoS in 3G Networks
ABSTRACT
The dramatic increase in demand for wireless Internet access has 
lead to the introduction of new wireless architectures and systems 
including 3G, Wi-Fi and WiMAX.  3G systems such as UMTS and 
CDMA2000 are leaning towards an all-IP architecture for 
transporting IP multimedia services, mainly due to its scalability 
and promising capability of inter-working heterogeneous wireless 
access networks. During the last ten years, substantial work has 
been done to understand the nature of wired IP traffic and it has 
been proven that IP traffic exhibits self-similar properties and 
burstiness over a large range of time scales. Recently, because of 
the large deployment of new wireless architectures, researchers 
have focused their attention towards understanding the nature of 
traffic carried by different wireless architecture and early studies 
have shown that wireless data traffic also exhibits strong long-range
dependency. Thus, the classical tele-traffic theory based on a 
simple Markovian process cannot be used to evaluate the 
performance of wireless networks. Unfortunately, the area of 
understanding and modeling of different kinds of wireless traffic is 
still immature which constitutes a problem since it is crucial to 
guarantee tight bound QoS parameters to heterogeneous end users 
of the mobile Internet. In this paper, we make several contributions 
to the accurate modeling of wireless IP traffic by presenting a 
novel analytical model that takes into account four different 
classes of self-similar traffic. The model consists of four queues 
and is based on a G/M/1 queueing system. We analyze it on the 
basis of priority with no preemption and find exact packet delays. 
To date, no closed form expressions have been presented for 
G/M/1 with priority.
Categories and Subject Descriptors
C.2.3. [Computer Communication Networks]: Network 
Management G.3. [Mathematics of Computing]: Queueing 
Theory, Markov Processes


General Terms
Theory,  Design,  Performance,  Reliability
