An Italian humanitarian activist and journalist who was kidnapped in Gaza has been found dead and one person is in custody , the Hamas Interior Ministry said Friday in a statement .
Police investigating the case learned where 36 year old Vittorio Arrigoni was being held and went to the location , where they found the body , the statement said .
The grisly outcome came hours after a video was posted on YouTube showing a man identified by his colleagues as Arrigoni .
A hand belonging to someone outside of the view of the lens appeared to be grasping his hair on the back and pointing the captive 's head toward the camera .
Arabic writing scrolled over the video threatened that Arrigoni would be killed if Hesham al Saeedni , who has been held for nearly a year by Hamas , were not released within 30 hours of 11 a.m.
The writing calls Italy an    infidel nation whose armies are still present in Muslim lands . ' 
Tradardi , who had initially expressed optimism that his co worker would be released unharmed , told CNN in a telephone interview that the outcome underscores the need for progress to be made toward Middle East peace .
Now , we have to work more deeply to try to change the foreign policy of our government , of the European government , of the United States government in order that they could press Israel to solve the problem of the Palestinians . ' 
Arrigoni had been active in the Palestinian cause for nearly a decade , and had been allied with the International Solidarity Movement for more than two years ,    monitoring human rights violations by Israel , supporting the Palestinian popular resistance against the Israeli occupation and disseminating information about the situation in Gaza to his home country of Italy , ' the non governmental organization said in a written statement .
Vittorio Arrigoni is a hero of Palestine , ' said a statement released by Khalil Shaheen , head of the economics and social rights department at the Palestinian Centre for Human Rights .
