LRB  CNN  RRB     Bayern Munich might be licking their wounds after defeat in the European Champions League final , but the German club can find comfort in victory of a different kind : by beating Chelsea in football 's financial league table .
Despite Saturday 's crushing penalty shootout loss to the English side in their own backyard at the the Allianz Arena , the Bavarians have been ranked as the second most valuable brand in football .
They generate the highest commercial revenue and they are able to negotiate the highest possible deals based on their dominance of the German market . ' 
Munich mourns as Bayern blow big chance 
Behind United and Bayern are the Spanish    El Clasico ' rivals of Real Madrid , third with a value of $ 600 million , and Barcelona , with a brand worth $ 580 million .
The top 10 is dominated by teams from the English Premier League , with United and Chelsea followed by 2011 12 title winners Manchester City in eighth  LRB  $ 302 million  RRB  
Torres unsure of Chelsea future 
   Within Europe , the Premier League is still the pinnacle , ' explained Chattaway .
The Premier League clubs are benefiting from that . ' 
Italian Cup winners Napoli  LRB  $ 85 million  RRB  were the only Serie A club to increase brand value , coming off the back of a relatively successful Champions League campaign , to be 22nd overall . 
AC Milan  LRB  $ 292 million  RRB  placed ninth on the list after winning the title in 2010 11 , while this season 's champions Juventus  LRB  $ 160 million  RRB  fell from 10th in 2011 to 16th this year .
Former England captain David Beckham and his Los Angeles Galaxy teammates enjoyed a landmark year in 2011 , being crowned Major League Soccer champions for a third time .
I think there is more scope for all the clubs to further maximize value    clubs have traditionally been slow and unimaginative in monetizing the brand they own , ' Chattaway said .
The list took into account various revenue streams for clubs , such as ticket sales , merchandising , sponsorship deals and money received from the sale of broadcasting rights .
