Activists speaking at a Syrian government sponsored    national dialogue ' meeting Sunday criticized recent crackdowns by the country 's security forces , calling for an end to violence against protesters .
We hope that at the end of this comprehensive meeting to announce the transition of Syria to a pluralistic democratic nation where all citizens are guided by equality and participate in the modeling of the future of their country , ' Vice President Faruq al Shara said in opening remarks at the meeting , which was broadcast live on state television .
However , some opponents of President Bashar al Assad 's regime have criticized the meeting , saying the government is trying to quiet widespread unrest without making meaningful changes .
Any dialogue must be based on the base of  LRB  al Assad 's  RRB  stepping down from power , ' said a statement from the Change in Syria Conference , an opposition group that called for al Assad to hand over power to the vice president at a meeting in Turkey last month .
Sunday 's dialogue meeting began as Syria 's foreign ministry summoned the U.S. and French ambassadors and accused them of interfering in internal affairs when they visited Syria 's fourth largest city without permission last week , state media reported .
However , a senior U.S. State Department official said U.S. Ambassador Robert Ford was not summoned by Syrian officials on Sunday ; his meeting with Syria 's foreign minister was previously scheduled by the U.S. Embassy in Damascus last Thursday .
The statement , issued in response to a question taken at Friday 's daily briefing , said the State Department had received reports that Syrian mission personnel had been conducting video surveillance of people participating in peaceful demonstrations in the United States .
We are also investigating reports that the Syrian government has sought retribution against Syrian family members for the actions of their relatives in the United States exercising their lawful rights in this country and will respond accordingly , ' the statement said .
