We 're going to Mars ! ' audaciously declared Zambian schoolteacher Edward Makuka Nkoloso in a 1964 newspaper op ed , revealing to the world his fanciful plans for his country to beat the United States and the Soviet Union in their fierce battle to conquer outer space .
Our rocket crew is ready , ' continued Nkoloso , explaining that his aspiring troupe of space explorers had been gearing up for their interstellar journey in the headquarters of the academy he 'd set up on the outskirts of Zambian capital Lusaka .
Read this : Nigerian doctor takes to the skies 
   Specially trained spacegirl Matha Mwambwa , two cats  LRB  also specially trained  RRB  and a missionary will be launched in our first rocket , ' wrote Nkoloso , a grade school science teacher and self appointed director of the space academy .
Unsurprisingly , the program , which was never taken seriously by the government of the newly independent Zambia , failed to take off ; a $ 7 million grant Nkoloso said he 'd requested from UNESCO never came , whilst the pregnancy of the 17 year old spacegirl brought the proceedings to an end .
You do n't have to be American and work for NASA to dream of going to the moon ; you can be an African    he  LSB  Nkoloso  RSB  was a school teacher and thought that could be done . ' 
   Honest approach ' 
Creating The Afronauts , which was sold out in just a few months , De Middel worked more as a movie director , trying to make the best of the resources around her .
If anything , De Middel says , the extraordinary tale of the forgotten Zambian space program presented a chance to talk about Africa from a different perspective .
The only honest approach I could do to that story was documenting my cliché , and that 's what I really wanted to do , because , in a way , I was raising awareness of the existence of that cliché and what we expect from Africa , ' she says .
Not only because the story is positive , in terms of African people having dreams , but also evidencing what we expect from Africa in terms of aesthetics and behavior . ' 
Today , nobody seems to know what happened to Nkoloso or his cast of wannabe space explorers .
