the present invention relates to a manufacturing method for advanced high   strength steel wheel , comprising the following steps . take an ahss with at least 590 mpa of tensile strength for rolling to circular ring of a rim . apply low heat input welding , such as the cold metal transfer welding or the gas tungsten arc welding / tungsten inert gas arc welding , at the junction of the rim to form a hollow cylindrical rim . then perform hole expanding and spinning / roll forming operations to the rim . take another ahss with at least 980 mpa of tensile strength for pressing and forming a disk . apply low heat input welding , such as cold metal transfer welding , to the rim and the disk to produce a wheel . according to the present invention , the welding quality of products can be improved significantly ; the fatigue lifetime of wheels can be enhanced ; and wheels are lightweight .
in order to make the structure and characteristics as well as the effectiveness of the present invention to be further understood and recognized , the detailed description of the present invention is provided as follows along with embodiments and accompanying figures . the manufacturing method for ahss wheel according to the present invention is used for manufacturing a wheel using the material of the newly developed ahss with a lightweight property . according to the initial results , the weight of ahss wheel is similar to that of an aluminum   alloy wheel ; the strength and the fatigue lifetime of ahss are higher than those of aluminum alloy . hence , ahss has better cost   to   performance ratio . the material will play an important role in lightweight applications and has a promising future of development . fig1 shows a flowchart of the manufacturing method according to the present invention , which comprises the following steps . please refer to fig2 and fig6 . take a first and a second ahss material 10 , 30 . the first ahss material 10 is a steel sheet with tensile strength equal to or above 590 mpa ; the second ahss material 30 is a steel sheet with tensile strength equal to or above 980 mpa . the types of the ahss materials can be hot rolled steel sheets ( saph ), dual phase ( dp ) steels , complex phase ( cp ) steels , transformation   induced plasticity ( trip ) steels , or martensitic ( ms ) steels . step s 12 : roll to circular ring of the rim . please also refer to fig2 . first , use an automatic three   axis double   side   displacement rolling machine ( not shown in the figure ) to perform rolling operation and form a rim 12 . the rim 12 has a junction 121 ( formed by opposing ends ). please refer to fig3 , 4 a , and 4 b . place the rim 12 on a welding jig 20 for performing low heat input welding process . the welding jig 20 is a jig designed for facilitating welding the rim 12 . the welding jig 20 comprises a base 21 with a pair of positioning posts 22 on both sides . opposing grooves 221 are disposed on the facing sides of the two positioning posts 22 . an accommodating space 220 is formed between the two positioning posts 22 . a plurality of positioning holes 222 are disposed on the top surface of the positioning posts 22 . locking holes 223 communicating with the grooves 221 are disposed on both sides of the top of the positioning posts 22 . besides , the welding jig 20 further comprises a top positioning member 23 and a bottom positioning member 24 . the top positioning member 23 can be a plate used as a plate   pressing jig and designed for preventing deformation induced by thermal expansion and contraction . the top positioning member 23 has an operating opening 231 at the center part and a plurality of positioning holes 232 on both sides . the plurality of positioning holes 232 , 222 can be locked to each other by screw members ( not shown in the figures ) so that the top positioning member 23 is fixed on the top surface of the positioning posts 22 . the bottom positioning member 24 is embedded in the grooves 221 . by passing screw members 224 through the locking holes 223 , the bottom positioning member 24 is fixed in the grooves 221 . the bottom member 24 has a plurality of air holes 242 on the top surface and a nozzle 241 projecting its bottom surface . the air holes 242 communicate with the nozzle 241 via the channels inside the bottom positioning member 24 . the nozzle 241 is used for connecting to an air pipe ( not shown in the figures ), and thus leading external air to spurt from the nozzle 241 and providing back blowing during the welding process for avoiding oxidation . while performing low heat input welding operation , the rim 12 is placed in the accommodating space 220 of the welding jig 20 . in addition , the top and bottom portions of the rim 12 are clipped and positioned by the top and bottom positioning members 23 , 24 ( as shown in fig4 b ). thereby , linear welding can be performed at the junction 121 of the rim 12 through the operating opening 231 and forming a hollow cylindrical rim 12 . the top and bottom positioning members 23 , 24 of the welding jig 20 provide proper protection , press and hold , and facilitate loading and unloading material during the welding process of the rim 12 . they can improve the welding quality , shorten the manufacturing time , and provide the function of heat dissipation during welding . moreover , the materials of the top and bottom positioning members 23 , 24 of the welding jig 20 can be selected from copper , aluminum , or steel . according to an embodiment , the rolled rim 12 is first fixed by spot welding and a guiding plate is welded ( not shown in the figure ). then , it is installed and fixed to the welding jig 20 for facilitating the welding operation . according to the present embodiment , cmt is selected for the welding operation , which is done by one weld and the permeance is complete . besides , gtaw / tig can be selected to weld the opposing ends of the rim in the step s 13 . nonetheless , two welds , namely , top and bottom welds , are required and no stuffing is needed . after linearly welding the rim 12 using the low heat input welding process is completed , the welded part should be ground to smooth the surface . in mass production , a scraper can be designed to remove welding crowns or welding roots . next , the hole expanding operation is performed to the hollow cylindrical rim 12 by a hydraulic press machine ( not shown in the figures ). normally , the hole expanding operation is performed twice . after the hole expanding operation , it is required to make sure there is no break at the welding part . then , perform the spinning / roll forming operation by a spinning / roll forming machine ( not shown in the figure ), for example , spinning / roll forming for four times , for producing a hole expanded rim 12 a , as shown in fig5 . the rim 12 a has a junction part 122 . please refer to fig6 . in the manufacturing process , the ahss material 30 is pressed to form the disk 31 by pressing equipment ( not shown in the figure ) simultaneously . the disk 31 has a plurality of disk holes 311 on one surface ; an annular junction surface 312 is formed on the other surface . in addition , the ahss rim 12 ( 12 a ) and the disk 31 can be combinations of the same or different types of ahss . the types of the ahss , as described above , include saph , dp , cp , trip , or ms steels . the thickness of the rim 12 a ranges from 1 . 2 mm to 2 . 2 mm ; the thickness of the disk 31 ranges from 1 . 6 mm to 2 . 2 mm . please refer to fig7 . the formed rim 12 a and disk 31 are fixed mechanically by a hydraulic press machine ( not shown in the figure ). in other words , the junction part 122 of the rim 12 a and the annular junction surface 312 of the disk 31 are joined and fixed . namely , by using a hoop welding jig 40 , as shown in fig7 and 8 , low heat input welding , such as the cmt welding , is performed on the fixed rim 12 a and the disk 31 to manufacture a steel wheel . the hoop welding jig 40 comprises two curved hoop members 41 . each of the curved hoop members 41 has a curved part 411 and fixing parts 412 at both ends of the curved part 411 . the fixing part 412 has a fixing hole 413 . as the annular junction surface 312 of the disk 31 is connected to the junction part 122 of the rim 12 a , as shown in fig8 , the hoop welding jig 40 ( the two curved hoop members 41 ) fixes the circumference . then the connected fixing holes 413 are screwed and joined by a screw member 414 . hence , the disk 31 and the rim 12 are hooped together tightly , ash shown in fig9 , for facilitating the operation of low heat input welding . the hoop welding jig 40 provide the heat dissipation function during the welding process for the steel wheel . on one hand , it reduces the input heat and thus enhancing the strength and tenacity of the steel wheel . on the other hand , it also makes the appearance of the steel wheel better . furthermore , the material of the hoop welding jig 40 can be selected from copper , aluminum , or steel ; the low heat input welding is the cmt welding or the gtaw / tig welding . in other words , by using low heat input welding technology , the ahss is used for manufacturing the steel wheel . the welding operation can be combined with robotic arms or rotary system for performing synchronous and automatic welding operations . finally , radial fatigue tests are performed with requirements more stringent than commercial regulations . the application of the manufacturing method for ahss wheel according to the present invention can upgrade the steel wheels of lower   grade steel used in current atvs or cars to upper grades . presently , including rims and disks , the steel material of 12   inch steel wheels in atvs is 440 mpa steel . for 15   inch steel wheels for cars , the rims adopt 440 mpa steel grade and the disks adopt 590 mpa steel grade . according to the present invention , the rims are upgraded to or above 590 mpa steel grade ; the disks are upgraded to or above 980 mpa steel grade . compared to the traditional commercial steel wheels , the weight of the developed ahss steel wheels is reduced by more than 30 %, thanks to apparent thinning effect in ahss . for example , in a traditional 12   inch steel wheel of atv , the thicknesses of the rim and the disk are 2 . 0 mm t and 2 . 6 mm t , respectively . as for the newly developed ahhs wheel , the thicknesses of the rim and the disk are only 1 . 4 mm t and 2 . 0 mm t , respectively . in addition , the weight of a traditional 12   inch 440 mpa grade wheel for atv is 4 . 45 kg , while the weight for a newly developed ahss wheel is only 3 . 044 kg , which is close to the weight , 2 . 994 kg , of a 12   inch aluminum   alloy welded wheel for atv . in addition to higher safety and strength , the steel wheel according to the present invention also has excellent fatigue lifetime . for example , by loading a 12   inch atv steel wheel with 500 kg , the fatigue lifetime reaches 1 , 000 , 000 . the load is exceeds the requirement by the regulations of sae j328 and cns9479 and the loading requirement in the industry by more than 32 %; and the fatigue lifetime is more than twice the required value . by extending the technology according to the present invention to the development of 15   inch ahss wheels , the testing results also show high   strength , tolerant , and lightweight performance . thereby , the present invention can be applied up to wheels of atvs , uvs , and cars with sizes over 15 inches as well as down to their wheels with sizes under 10 inches . accordingly , by using the method described above , the present invention can apply low heat input welding technology and the provided jig to ahss , the wheels of atv four   wheeled motorcycles , uvs , and car wheels ( steel wheels ). according to the present invention , the welding quality of products can be improved significantly ; the fatigue lifetime of wheels can be enhanced ; and wheels are lightweight . thereby , the problem of welding ahss using traditional high heat input welding technology can be solved and the traditional materials for wheels can be thus replaced . furthermore , the technical combination according to the present invention can be applied to the production of ahhs wheels with tensile strength reaching or above 590 mpa and 980 mpa . the manufacturing method for wheel comprises rolling , welding , hole expanding , spinning / roll forming , and pressing for producing lightweight , high   strength , superior fatigue lifetime , excellent welding and formation , and high quality wheels . in addition , the thickness of rims and disks according to the present invention can be reduced for achieving lightweight ( lighter by over 30 % than 440 mpa steel grade ), high   strength , and anti   fatigue purposes . the radial load is identical to or greater than that of a commercial wheel ( steel wheel ). the fatigue lifetime is twice the lifetime of a commercial wheel ( steel wheel ). for example , for a 12   inch atv wheel , the radial load is 500 kg ( compared to 377 kg of commercial requirement ); the fatigue lifetime is 1 , 000 , 000 times ( compared to 500 , 000of commercial requirement ). the present invention outperforms the regulations of sae j328 and cns9479 . as applied to 15   inch steel wheels , the present invention has similar performance moreover , the provided jig according to the present invention is designed to work with the low heat input welding process . by combining robots and rotary system for performing synchronous welding , the production process can be automated , improving the production efficiency significantly . compared with the traditional mag welding , the steel wheels manufactured according to the present invention have the property of low deformation . by setting appropriate welding parameters , the effect of no spatter and high quality welding can be achieved . in addition , labor costs for subsequent processes can be saved substantially . besides , the present invention adopts low heat input welding , whose heat input is lower than traditional mag welding by approximately 30 %. the welds and heat   affected zones are narrower ; the welded parts have higher welding strength , elongation rate , and bend tenacity . thus , the present invention is suitable for welding ahss , thin sheets , and steel wheels . besides , the problem of low yield rate due to cracks while forming rims after flash welding higher strength steel grades ( above 590 mpa ) can be solved , making it applicable to welding rims and disks of wheels . accordingly , the present invention conforms to the legal requirements owing to its novelty , nonobviousness , and utility . however , the foregoing description is only embodiments of the present invention , not used to limit the scope and range of the present invention . those equivalent changes or modifications made according to the shape , structure , feature , or spirit described in the claims of the present invention are included in the appended claims of the present invention .
