the present invention provides a method of improving a therapeutic response to a cancer treatment , in a subject , the method comprising administering an effective amount of an agent that enhances the expression of microrna 29 or an agent that mimics the effects of microrna 29 . further provided is a method of treating a cancer in a subject in need of such treatment comprising the step of administering an effective amount of a microrna 29 or an agent that enhances the expression of microrna 29 .
as used herein , the term “ a ” or “ an ”, when used in conjunction with the term “ comprising ” in the claims and / or the specification , may refer to “ one ,” but it is also consistent with the meaning of “ one or more ,” “ at least one ,” and “ one or more than one .” some embodiments of the invention may consist of or consist essentially of one or more elements , method steps , and / or methods of the invention . it is contemplated that any method or composition described herein can be implemented with respect to any other method or composition described herein . as used herein , the term “ or ” in the claims refers to “ and / or ” unless explicitly indicated to refer to alternatives only or the alternatives are mutually exclusive , although the disclosure supports a definition that refers to only alternatives and “ and / or .” the present invention relates to the design , synthesis , construction , composition , characterization and use of a novel therapeutic agent such as nucleic acids ( micrornas ) and methods useful in treating cancer . more specifically , the invention discloses that artificial microrna 29a , b , c is a potent tumor suppressor able to significantly suppress cell proliferation , increase apoptosis , suppress tumor growth and increase sensitivity of chemotherapeutic drugs when presented in the form of pri   mirna , pre   mirna , mature mirna or fragments of variants thereof that retain the biological activity of the mature mirna and dna encoding a pri   mirna , pre   mirna , mature mirna , fragments or variants thereof , or regulatory elements of the mirna . a preferred embodiment of the present invention discloses that that mir   29a significantly decreases the proliferation of both p53   deficient ovcar8 and p53   wild type heya8 . this is common characteristic of tumor suppressor genes and micrornas . from this work , a person having ordinary skill in this art could readily conclude that mir   29a along with its family members mir   29b and mir   29c are strong suppressors of ovarian and other cancers . another preferred embodiment of the present invention discloses that mir   29a significantly increases the sensitivity to cisplatin ( which is commonly used to treat ovarian and other cancers ). mir   29a treated heya8 cells proliferate at rates substantially lower than heya8 cells treated with a scrambled control or the parental heya8 cell line . from these data one may readily conclude that mir   29a and its family members mir   29b and mir   29c would significantly increase the sensitivity of tumors to chemotherapy in ovarian and other cancers . another preferred embodiment of this invention teaches that patients that are able to respond to current doses of chemotherapy can be treated with much lower doses of chemotherapy when presented with mir   29a , b , c . also , patients that do not respond to chemotherapy , or patients that respond but relapse , can be treated with regular doses of chemotherapy in presence of mir   29a , b , c . in addition since mir   29a is highly effective at suppressing the proliferation of p53   wild type ovarian cancer cells it is likely to be effective in treating low grade tumors as well . one preferred embodiment of the invention discloses the use of a nucleic acid construct encoding an artificial mirna presented as a double   stranded rna or precursor hairpin or a primary mirna in the single straded rna form or encoded in a dna vector delivered in a suitable pharmaceutical carrier , to be used for inhibiting the expression of all oncogenes and regulators of oncogenes containing a mir   29a , b , c complementary site ( lcs ). the pharmaceutical carrier includes , but is not limited to , a virus , a liposome , or a polymer , and any combination thereof . another preferred embodiment of the present invention discloses the composition , methods and use of a nucleic acid construct encoding an artificial mirna presented as a double   stranded rna or precursor a hairpin or a primary mirna in the single stranded rna form or encoded in a dna vector delivered in a suitable pharmaceutical carrier , to be used for inhibiting the expression of all oncogenes and regulators of oncogenes containing a mir   29a , b , c complementary site ( lcs ), wherein the mir   29a , b , c is delivered in multiple ways , to include but not limited to , as a mature mirna by itself , or as a gene is encoded by a nucleic acid , or as a precursor hairpin by itself or conjugated to nanoparticles of metal or liposomal origin , or conjugated to nanoparticles of metal or liposomal origin , or as a primary mirna by itself or conjugated to nanoparticles of metal or liposomal origin or delivered on a virus , or as a liposome , or as a polymer , or as a gene that is encoded by a nucleic acid and such nucleic acid is located on a vector , or as a gene is encoded by a nucleic acid , or as a precursor hairpin by itself or conjugated to nanoparticles of metal or liposomal origin . another preferred embodiment of the present invention discloses that such nucleic acid is located on a vector selected from the group consisting of a plasmid , cosmid , phagemid , virus , and other vehicles derived from viral or bacterial sources , or is located on a vector that may further comprises one or more in vivo expression elements selected from the group consisting of a promoter , enhancer , and combinations thereof . another preferred embodiment of the present invention relates to the use of mir   29a , b , c where mirna is administered to , or expression is increased in the cells of , a patient for treatment or prevention of cancer , including but not limited to lung cancer , pancreatic cancer , skin cancer , hematological neoplasms , breast cancer , brain cancer , colon cancer , follicular lymphoma , bladder cancer , cervical cancer , endometrial cancer , esophageal cancer , gastric cancer , head and neck cancer , multiple myeloma , liver cancer , lymphomas , oral cancer , osteosarcomas , ovarian cancer , uterine leiomyosarcoma , uterine leiomyomas , endometriomas , endometriosis , uterine papillary serous carcinomas , prostate cancer , testicular cancer , and / or thyroid cancer . another preferred embodiment of the present invention relates to the use of mir   29a , b , c where mirna is administered to , or expression is increased in the cells of , a patient for treatment or prevention of cancer and wherein the patient is undergoing one or more cancer therapies selected from the group consisting of surgery , chemotherapy , radiotherapy , thermotherapy , immunotherapy , hormone therapy and laser therapy . another embodiment of the present invention discloses a method for determining the sensitivity of a cancer to a mir   29a , b , c mirna delivered on a suitable pharmaceutical carrier to bind to an mrna encoded by an oncogene containing one or several mir   29a , b , c complementary site ( lcs ) in a cancerous or transformed cell or an organism with a cancerous or transformed cell ; and determining if the cancerous or transformed cell growth or viability is inhibited or if expression of the oncogene is inhibited . while the invention described here specifically relates to the design and construction of a novel therapeutic agents such as nucleic acids ( micrornas ) to treat cancer , one of ordinary skills in the art , with the benefit of this disclosure , it is possible to extend the proposed micrornas to be used in many kind of cancer treatment , and would recognize the extension of the approach to other treatment protocols . the following examples are given for the purpose of illustrating various embodiments of the invention and are not meant to limit the present invention in any fashion . one skilled in the art will appreciate readily that the present invention is well adapted to carry out the objects and obtain the ends and advantages mentioned , as well as those objects , ends and advantages inherent herein . changes therein and other uses which are encompassed within the spirit of the invention as defined by the scope of the claims will occur to those skilled in the art . the set of 487 tumors analyzed were from the original tcga set of 489 ( samples tcga   041536 and tcga   61   1911 did not have quality mirna data at the time of this study ). the mirna array normalization steps are as follows . the gmeansignal from raw array files (. level 1 .) were quantile normalized and log transformed , removing duplicate samples and control probes (. level 2 .). multiple median centering steps set the median of every batch to the median of all batches : in brief , within each batch , the median for each mirna was first subtracted , then calculated the across batch median and added it back to all samples within that batch ; the resulting data were collapsed to mirna levels (. level 3 .). the level 3 mirna data are available at the tcga data portal . for gene expression analysis , the previously described . unified . dataset was used . the definition and validation of a prognostic mirna signature was carried out essentially as described for the previously   defined prognostic mrna ( gene ) signature [ the_cancer_genome_atlas_research_network ( 2011 ) integrated genomic analyses of ovarian carcinoma . nature 474 : 609   615 ], using the previously   defined training and validation subsets with expression values normalized within each subset to standard deviations from the median . given the mirna signature from the training dataset , the prognostic t   score was defined for each validation profile as the two   sided t   statistic comparing , within each tumor profile , the average of the poor prognosis mirnas with the average of the good prognosis mirnas . the time course mts assay experiments were run three times ( separate days ), each with a different set of biological quadruplicates ( n = 12 per group ); within each experiment run , the viability measures within each time point were centered on the mean of the wt group for the first run . for cisplatin treatment , cells were transfected as described , and media was replaced after 24 hrs with media containing cisplatin ( sigma ) ( 0   7 . 5 μg / ml ). viability was assayed 72 hrs post   transfection . experiments were run three times , each with a different biological replicate ( n = 3 per group ). for each run , viability measures within each concentration point were centered on the mean of values for the first run . total rna ( 60 ng ) was reverse transcribed in a 40 μl reaction using the taqman ® microrna reverse transcription kit ( abi ). custom primer sequences are shown in table 1 . qpcr was performed on a stepone real   time pcr system ( abi ) using power   sybr green pcr master mix ( abi ) in a 20 μl reaction and human ribosomal rna 18s as an endogenous control ( which was itself not mir   29a   regulated , data not shown ). the qpcr experiments were run four times ( separate days ), each with independent biological samples ( n = 4 per group ); within each experiment run , relative expression values were normalized to standard deviations from the mean . mirnas are influenced by both copy number alteration and genomic location . the tcga ovarian cancer datasets were examined , representing 487 tumors profiled for mirna expression , for patterns of correlation between the mirnas and other molecular features . to begin with , it was considered whether mirnas with expression levels frequently altered by changes in dna copy number may reveal a subset of mirnas under clonal selection in the tumors . such mirnas would be of interest as candidate oncomirs or tumor suppressive mirs . mirnas were therefore systematically analyzed for both loss and gain of dna copy number associated with a concordant change in mature mirna expression level . this analysis revealed several mirnas in focally amplified and deleted genomic regions . in particular , let   7b was the most frequently deleted mirna having both recurrent hemizygous genomic loss ( 86 % of samples ) and homozygous deletion ( 7 . 2 %). four members of the mir   30 family were among the most frequently amplified mirnas . interestingly , these members were encoded at two different focally amplified loci ( 8q24 and 1p34 ) and all four mirnas showed strong concordant change in mature mirna expression . moreover , mirnas were frequently coexpressed with neighboring mirnas . previously , when examining mirna expression profiles in a small dataset of 24 normal human tissues , baskerville and bartel found evidence that proximal pairs of mirnas are generally coexpressed ( suggesting that they are processed from polycistronic primary transcripts ), and that intronic mirnas are usually coexpressed with their host gene mrna ( suggesting that they both derive from a common transcript ) [ 15 ]. to examine this situation in ovarian cancer ( thereby reinforcing current notions of mirna biology as well as the integrity of the tcga data ), pairwise comparisons for each chromosome between the expression profiles of all mirnas oriented in the same direction were made , calculating for each pair a correlation coefficient . the results showed that most mirna genes within 50   100 kb of each other had highly correlated expression patterns . notably , at distances beyond 100 kb ( exceeding the length of most human genes ), the correlation between pairs dropped dramatically to zero . while dna copy number alterations undoubtedly influence gene and mirna expression in cancer , pairwise correlations in copy number levels between proximal mirnas showed a very different pattern from the pairwise expression correlations . high proximal correlations for copy number extended for & gt ; 1 mb in length , with no dramatic drop . approximately 177 of the 558 mature human mirnas profiled are located in the genome within the introns of host genes , and mirnas were found to be frequently coexpressed with these host genes in this data . for each of 188 mirna   host gene pairs ( each comprised of a mirna located within the boundaries of a known gene , same orientation , where some mature mirnas have multiple genomic locations ), the correlation between mirna and host gene expression was computed . mirna   host gene pairs tended to be strongly correlated with each other and , with 52 % of the mirna   host gene pairs with available data showing significant positive correlation 1 ( p & lt ; 0 . 01 ), in agreement with previous studies . as expected , mirna expression was also correlated with host gene copy number , though the correlations were not as strong as for gene expression . mirnas and their predicted gene targets tend to be anti   correlated within ovarian tumors a key to studying mirnas is identifying their gene targets . while mirna targeting predictions made in silico ( the vast majority being unvalidated ) may have sizable rates of false positives and negatives , considering correlations between gene and mirna expression across a large panel of tumors could provide further support for potential mirna : mrna targeting relationships . to this end , all possible mirna : mrna correlations across the 487 tcga ovarian tumors were computed , for the top expressed 191 mirnas and 8547 genes . the 191 × 8547 mirna : mrna pairs were then sorted by low to high correlation , and found that among the most anti   correlated pairs , there was high enrichment for predicted mirna : mrna targeting interactions by miranda algorithm , where no such enrichment was observed for the positively correlated mirnas : mrnas . ( this trend was observed when considering all other mirnas and genes in addition to those most highly expressed . in addition to validating the public target prediction databases as being enriched for true positives , this finding indicated that thousands of mirna : mrna targeting interactions are active in ovarian cancer and influence tumor gene expression heterogeneity . the impact of copy number alteration on expression level can vary greatly between genes , conceivably introducing bias when evaluating association of mirna and gene expression levels . therefore , in addition to a direct pearson &# 39 ; s correlation between mirna and mrna , a simple linear regression model was applied to account for ‘ noise ’ due to copy number alteration , evaluating the association between expression levels of a mirna and mrna , when copy number alteration status of the gene is held fixed . interestingly , the pearson &# 39 ; s model and the regression model of mirna : mrna correlations both gave very similar overall results in terms of predicted target enrichment , with the regression model &# 39 ; s negatively correlated pairs showing slightly greater target enrichment . while , in general , copy number alteration did not represent a major confounding factor , the regression model could identify individual mirna : mrna correlations which were missed by the pearson &# 39 ; s model , including mir   29a : hars2 . as another way to globally represent mirna : mrna interactions in ovarian cancer , for all mirna : mrna pairs with the strongest negative correlation ( regression coefficient & lt ;− 7 . 0 , based on the linear model ), the matrix of correlation coefficients were clustered , thereby grouping mirnas when they are negatively correlated with same genes and vice versa . the gene dendrogram was then cut to extract 6 gene clusters ( based on what appeared to be natural separations within the cluster tree ), each of which was found to be uniquely enriched for different gene classes , including a cluster with wnt and hedgehog pathway gene members , a cluster with cell adhesion genes , two clusters with immune response genes , and a cluster of cell cycle   related genes . for several individual mirnas , the genes anti   correlated in expression were significantly enriched for in silico predicted targets . fig1 shows that gene transcripts with mirna 7mer in the 3 ′  utr tend to be anti   correlated with expression of the corresponding mirna . top anticorrelated genes of mir   29 in ovarian cancer included dnmt3a and dnmt3b , suggesting a role for mir   29 in high   grade serous ovarian cancer . fig2 shows the correlation of gene expression with mir   29a expression . mir   29a was underexpressed in the dna methylation subtype “ mc2 ”. genes anti   correlated with mir   29a were enriched for mir   29a targets as predicted by sequence analysis ( either targetscan or miranda , fig2 ). however , many in silico predicted targets did not show the anticipated anti   correlation patterns , again suggesting that by factoring in expression data , one could reduce the false positive rate for target predictions . fig3 shows the top eight words ( of all 5 , 6 and 7mers ) enriched in 3 ′  utrs of mrnas anti   correlated with mir   29a ( 5 ′  tagcaccatctgaaatcggtta   3 ′, seq id no : 13 ) expression ( fdr & lt ; 1 − 6 ). fig4 contains a qpcr analysis showing relative quantity of selected mir   29a anti   correlated gene targets after mir29a overexpression in heya8 ovarian cancer cells . furthermore , as additional evidence for mir   29 activity , a correlation   based sequence motif analysis found that the mir   29 seed sequence complement was the top enriched motif in 3 ′  utrs of mrnas anti   correlated with mir   29a expression ( fig3 ), further suggesting that mir   29 directly regulates expression levels of many target mrnas in the tumors . this analysis also showed strong enrichment for non   canonical mir   29a seed motifs ( i . e . motifs not following the typical pattern of nucleotides 2   7 ) with a bulge in position 3 of the mir   29a sequence , suggesting that target prediction methods requiring perfect base pairing in the seed region of the mirna target duplex could miss a substantial fraction of functional mirna target interactions . by forcing mir   29a expression in vitro in the ovarian cancer cell line heya8 , it was confirmed that a number of the genes anti   correlated with mir   29a , i . e ., dnmt3a , dnmt3b , cdc6 , cbx1 , mybl2 , and timeless ( four of which were predicted direct targets ), were repressed by mir   29a ( fig4 ), which demonstrated these gene targets as relevant in both the in vitro functional models as well as the human tumor specimens ; one gene tested , sae1 , showed anticorrelations but no functional repression . while mir   29 expression was not associated with survival ( p & gt ; 0 . 05 , univariate cox ), forced mir   29a expression impacted cell proliferation in ovcar   8 and heya8 cell lines ( fig5 a   5b ) and had an additional effect on chemotherapeutic agent cisplatin in inhibiting the growth of these lines ( fig6 a   6b ). fig5 a   5b demonstrate the effect of mir   29a overexpression on proliferation of heya8 and ovcar   8 cells . when compared with the parental strains in each case as well as these cell lines transiently transfected with a scrambled control mir   29a is able to very significantly suppress cell proliferation in p53   wild type heya8 and moderately suppress cell proliferation of the p53   deficient ovcar8 . fig6 shows the effect of mir   29a on proliferation under cisplatin treatment . as can be clearly seen by fig6 a , mir   29a suppresses the proliferation of heya8 significantly more effectively than the scrambled control at the same dosage of cisplatin . the present invention is well adapted to attain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those that are inherent therein . the particular embodiments disclosed above are illustrative only , as the present invention may be modified and practiced in different but equivalent manners apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings herein . furthermore , no limitations are intended to the details of construction or design herein shown , other than as described in the claims below . it is therefore evident that the particular illustrative embodiments disclosed above may be altered or modified and all such variations are considered within the scope and spirit of the present invention . also , the terms in the claims have their plain , ordinary meaning unless otherwise explicitly and clearly defined by the patentee .
