a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula in polymorphic crystalline form a : together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient , wherein the compound of formula is present in polymorphic form a substantially free of other polymorphic forms .
ester ( 4 ) can be synthesized by reacting a phenol of formula ( 2 ): wherein r is an acid protecting group , such as methyl or ethyl , with the bromo compound of formula ( 3 ): in an organic solvent , for example acetone , methylethylketone , diethylketone or dimethylformamide . the reaction may be conducted from below room temperature up to the reflux temperature of the solvent , in the presence of an inorganic base , e . g ., potassium carbonate or sodium carbonate . the addition of potassium iodide is also recommended . analogues of compound ( 3 ) having alternative leaving groups , such as chloro and tosylate , may be used to effect the coupling reaction . removal of the acid protecting group by alkaline ester hydrolysis and extractive work   up gives compound ( 1 ) as a white solid . recrystallization of the white solid to give essentially pure form a crystals ( fig6 ), ( e . g ., 90 % or more , preferably at least 95 %) can be accomplished by dissolving compound ( 1 ) in 5 to 10 parts by weight of ethanol at 25   40 ° c . to give a yellow to orange solution . the ethanol solution is charged with 1   10 parts of water and agitated at 20   25 ° c . for about 15   60 minutes and then at 5   10 ° c . for an additional period of 1   4 hours , preferably 2 . 0   3 . 0 hours , resulting in an off   white suspension . to this suspension is added 5   15 parts of water and the mixture is agitated at 5   10 ° c . for an additional 1   4 hours , preferably 1 . 5   2 . 0 hours . a solid , white to off   white product is isolated by vacuum filtration and the filter cake is washed with water and dried in a vacuum at 25   40 ° c . for 12   24 hours . other recrystallization conditions are also able to produce form a , such as dissolving compound ( 1 ) in a lower alcohol ( isopropanol ), and cooling the solution form crystals . pharmaceutical compositions containing the orthorhombic form of compound ( 1 ) may be formulated for oral administration with inert excipients , such as a starch binder excipient , alone or in combination with microcrystalline cellulose and a suitable lubricant . other suitable excipients include polyvinylpyrrolidinone , gelatin , hydroxy cellulose , acacia , polyethylene glycol , mannitol , sodium chloride , sodium citrate or any other excipient known to those of skill in the art of pharmaceutical compositions . excipients in tablets are generally classified according to their function , such as diluents ( also called bulking agents and fillers ), binders which hold the ingredients together in the compressed tablet , disintegrants which help facilitate the break   up of the tablet when placed in a fluid environment to release the active ingredient , and lubricants to improve the release of the compressed tablet from the die and punches . in addition , tablets may contain other substances intended to improve the tabletting process , such as flow additives , flavors , sweeteners and anti   oxidants . tabletting and some capsule filling operations are based on the ability of certain powders to bind under compression . compressed tablets may be prepared by wet granulation , dry granulation , or direct compression . the wet granulation process includes mixing the components in powder form , preparing the granulating binder solution , thoroughly mixing the components with the granulating binder solution to form a dough , coarse screening the mass through a sieve , drying , grinding , adding the lubricant and compressing the tablets from the resulting mixture . a preferred tablet formulation is a wet granulation containing polymorphic form a of compound ( 1 ) lactose regular , microcrystalline cellulose 101 , crosscarmellose , magnesium stearate and purified water , coated with opadry ii white . the tablets should weigh from 100 mg to 1000 mg , preferably 250 mg to 500 mg . dry granulation involves the steps of mixing the powder components , compressing the mixture into hard slugs , grinding the slugs into desired particle size , screening , adding other excipients if necessary , and compressing the mixture into tablets . the most economical tabletting method , direct compression , requires only two steps , mixing the dry components and compressing the mixture into tablets . suitable direct compression binders include microcrystalline cellulose , compressible sugars , certain calcium salts , lactose and dextrose . of these , microcrystalline cellulose is preferred . that excipient also displays good disintegration properties . other good binders include calcium phosphates and compressible sugars . calcium salt binders generally require the use of disintegrants . mannitol and sorbitol have certain taste advantages , but they lack binding properties and require a disintegrant . the tablets typically exhibit a tablet hardness of greater than 2 kilopond ( kp )/ cm . sup . 2 , more preferably a tablet hardness of greater than 5 , most preferably about 10 to about 20 kp / cm . sup . 2 and a disintegration time of less than 30 minutes , more preferably less than 15 minutes as measured utilizing the standard usp disintegration test in water . the polymorphic form a of compound ( 1 ) may also be formulated in capsules . solid carriers include starch , lactose , calcium sulfate , di   hydrate , teffa alba , magnesium stearate or stearic acid , talc , pectin , acacia , agar or gelatin . the carrier may also include a sustained release material such as glycerol monostearate or glycerol di   stearate , alone or with a wax . the amount of solid carrier varies but , preferably , will be between about 20 mg to about 1 gram per dosage unit . encapsulation can be done in any suitable manner , typically by use of a polymer coating used for microencapsulation , enteric coatings , multiple coatings , and the like . the polymer coating may resist disintegration upon contact with the saliva but instantly release the compound upon contact with gastric juice in the stomach , in order to control the taste of the composition . alternatively , the polymer coating may be one that resists rapid disintegration in the presence of gastric juice . suitable coating polymers include biodegradable polymers such as polylactic acid , polygycolic acid , copolymers of lactic and glycolic acid , polyorthoesters , and polyanhydrides thereof . the compound also can be encapsulated by a polymer coating such as a polysaccharide ( e . g ., methyl or ethyl cellulose ) or within a liposomal delivery system . suitable methods of preparing compositions containing microencapsulated active ingredients are described , for example , in u . s . pat . nos . 4 , 462 , 982 , 4 , 710 , 384 , 5 , 178 , 878 , and 5 , 709 , 886 . preferably , the microencapsulated compounds have a mean particle size of about 50 microns to about 120 microns ( e . g ., about 70 microns to about 100 microns ). typical doses of compound ( 1 ) in tablets and capsules are from about 1 . 0 mg / kg to about 100 mg / kg . administration intervals vary with the patient &# 39 ; s age , weight and general condition . in general , the drug is administer from one to four times daily . in general , tablets are formed utilizing a carrier such as modified starch , alone or in combination with 10 % by weight of carboxymethyl cellulose ( avicel ). the formulations are compressed at from 1 , 000 to 3 , 000 pounds pressure in the tablet   forming process . the tablets preferably exhibit an average hardness of about 1 . 5 to 8 . 0 kp / cm . sup . 2 , preferably 5 . 0 to 7 . 5 kp / cm2 . disintegration time varies from about 30 seconds to about 15 or 20 minutes . the following examples give specific embodiments of the invention but should not be construed as limiting its scope . to a stirred mixture of ethyl 4  ( 6   acetyl   3   hydroxy   2   propylphenoxy ) butyrate ( 1 . 6 g ), potassium iodide ( 0 . 5 g ) and potassium carbonate ( 1 . 45 g ) in acetone ( 30 ml ) was added drop wise a solution of 4  ( 3   bromopropylthio )  2   hydroxy   3   propylphenyl   ethanone ( 1 . 9 g ) in acetone ( 10 ml ) with heating to reflux . after refluxing six hours the mixture was cooled to room temperature and inorganic materials were separated by filtration . the filtrate was concentrated and the residue was separated and purified by silica   gel column chromatography ( eluting with benzene : ethyl acetate = 9 : 1 ) to give the title compound as crude crystals ( 2 . 1 g , 72 . 4 %) which were recrystallized from ethanol to give colorless crystals , mp 65   66 ° c . to a mixture of ethyl 4  [ 6   acetyl   3  [ 3  ( 4   acetyl   3   hydroxy   2   propylphenylthio ) propoxy ]  2   propylphenoxy ] butyrate ( 2 . 1 g ) in ethanol ( 10 ml ) was added a solution of sodium hydroxide ( 0 . 26 g ) dissolved into water ( 10 ml ). after heating on a hot water bath for 5 minutes , the mixture was cooled by adding ice   water and was made acidic by addition of hydrochloric acid , followed by extraction with ethyl acetate . the organic layer was washed with water , dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated . the resultant residue was separated and purified by silica   gel column chromatography ( eluting with ethanol : methylene chloride = 3 : 100 ) to give the title compound ( 1 . 3 g , 65 . 2 %) as colorless crystals , mp 79   81 ° c . after re   crystallization with individual solvents , compound ( 1 ) was subjected to powder x   ray diffractometry , thermal analysis and determination of solubility in ether ; thus an exploratory evaluation of the crystalline polymorphism was made . the results demonstrate that compound ( 1 ) is present in 5 different crystalline polymorphs . fig1   5 show the powder x   ray diffraction patterns and dsc for metastable crystal types i through v . table 1 shows the preparatory procedures for types i through v and their solubility in ether . table 1 shows that the crystallization temperature was critically important in preparing the various crystalline polymorphs . when the bulk ingredient is prepared , crystallization takes place on a large scale and failure in controlling the exact temperature can result in a mixture of stable and metastable crystals , giving a larger variance in the physicochemical properties and bioavailability among production lots , against which precautions should be taken . bulk crystallization procedure for obtaining orthorhombic polymorph , crystal type v ( form a ). off   white solid compound ( 1 ) 34 g was dissolved in 204 ml ( 6 parts wrt mass of dry filter cake ) of ethanol ( 40 ° c .) giving a yellow to orange solution . with moderate agitation , the ethanol solution was charged with 43 ml ( 1 . 3 parts ) of water . the reaction mixture was cooled to 20   25 ° c . and agitated at 20   25 ° c . for about 15 minutes and then at 10   15 ° c . for an additional period of 1   2 hours , appearing as an off   white suspension . to the resulting suspension was then charged 364 ml ( 10 . 7 parts ) of water and the mixture was agitated at 5   10 ° c . for an additional 1   2 hours . a solid , white to off   white product was isolated by vacuum filtration . the filter cake was washed with 2 × 30 ml of water . the off white solid was dried in a vacuum at 35   40 ° c . for 24 hours . samples of compound ( 1 ) ( 5 g ) were suspended in ethanol / water ( 2 : 1 , 100 ml ) and stirred for one hour at temperatures of 22 ° c ., 30 ° c ., and 40 ° c ., respectively . the suspensions were filtered and the solids dried in a vacuum oven at room temperature overnight to give the insoluble material . the solubilities were calculated by subtractive means based on recovered material . in general wet granulation tablets were prepared with a binding solution comprised of an aqueous solution of hydroxypropylcellulose . granulation was performed with a high shear granulator , the resultant wet mass was fluid bed dried , milled , blended with extragranular excipients to aid disintegration , flow and compressibility , and subsequently tabletted on a tablet press . these core tablets were film coated to standardize appearance and to improve compliance ( i . e . ease of swallowing ). excipients included , but were not limited to croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , hydroxypropylcelluse , hydroxypropylmethylcellulose , lactose , glyceryl behenate , polyvinylpyrrolidine , mannitol , titanium dioxide and microcrystalline cellulose . in general , the dry granulation formulation was formed by dry blending ( in a tumble blender or high shear mixer ) a portion of the binding , disintegration and lubrication powders . this dry powder blend was formed into granules through the use of a roller compactor equipped with an oscillating ( shear ) granulator . the ss mesh screen , gap width , gap force , roller speed and granulator speeds were defined to optimize the formulation physical parameters as apparent to those skilled in the art of pharmaceutical processing . excipients included , but were not limited to croscarmellose sodium , magnesium stearate , hydroxypropylcelluse , hydroxypropyl methylcellulose , lactose , glyceryl behenate , polyvinylpyrrolidine , mannitol , titanium dioxide and microcrystalline cellulose . table 3 . 4 . 1 proposed initial formulation compositions for dry granulation prototyping prototype 1 prototype 2 no . ingredient ( mg / tablet ) ( mg / tablet ) 1 compound ( 1 ), type v ( form a ) 250 250 2 lactose regular / fast flow 7 . 5 — 3 microcrystalline cellulose ph101 31 31 4 croscarmellose sodium 20 20 5 hydroxypropylcellulose 80 — 6 magnesium stearate 2 . 0 — 7 hydroxypropylmethylcellulose 2910 8 . 0 — 8 titanium dioxide 1 . 0 — 9 carnauba wax 0 . 5 0 . 5 10 polyvinylpyrrolidone — 85 11 mannitol — 3 . 5 12 glyceryl behenate — 2 . 0 13 opadry ii ( white ) — 8 . 0 total 400 mg 400 mg the dry granulation process is given in the chart in fig7 . table 3 . 4 . 2 proposed initial formulation compositions for wet granulation prototyping prototype 3 prototype 4 no . ingredient ( mg / tablet ) ( mg / tablet ) 1 compound ( 1 ), type v ( form a ) 250 250 2 lactose regular / fast flow 7 . 5 — 3 microcrystalline cellulose ph101 32 32 4 croscarmellose sodium 25 25 5 hydroxypropylcellulose 25 — 6 magnesium stearate 2 . 0 — 7 hydroxypropylmethylcellulose 2910 7 . 0 — 8 titanium dioxide 1 . 0 — 9 carnauba wax 0 . 5 0 . 5 10 polyvinylpyrrolidone — 30 11 mannitol — 3 . 5 12 glyceryl behenate — 2 . 0 13 opadry ii ( white ) — 7 . 0 total 350 mg 350 mg the wet granulation process is given in the chart in fig8 . the preferred embodiments of the invention have been described above in detail . various modifications and improvements thereto will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art . the foregoing examples are intended to be non   limiting and exemplary of the invention described in the foregoing specification and claimed below . the samples were prepared by a normal front packing technique and run on a siemens d5000 diffractometer system . a high   resolution cu   kα   source was used , operating at 50 kv / 35 ma . the secondary beam was monochromatized by a kevex solid state detector . the step scan mode was used for data collection within the range of 2 . 5 °  35 ° ( 2   theta ). the obtained data were processed by diffrac plus ™ software . the parts of the diffraction patterns of three different polymorphs are shown in fig6 , determined as form a ( likely an orthorhombic structure , specified type v ), form b ( i ) and form c ( ii ) ( both monoclinic lattices ) are also shown . as on can see the top pattern is quite different from the other two . the differences are clearly marked with arrows above the top trace . most of the single peaks on the upper pattern became doublets on the other two . this strongly suggests a structural transition with lowering of the overall symmetry . in order to find out some criteria for better distinguishing of these polymorphous , an attempt for indexing the unknown lattices was performed . the results reveal an orthorhombic lattice ( top trace , form a ) and a monoclinic one ( middle trace , form b ). the bottom trace ( form c ) has also a monoclinic lattice very similar to that one of form b , but with some missing reflections ( marked with arrows ) that could result from some structural differences . the structure of our form a is very close to form v in table 1 and fig5 , although there are some differences at the range 19   25 ° 2   theta . on the other hand , the diffraction patterns for polymorphous form i and form ii match well with forms b and c , as they all apparently show the splitting of the main reflections due to reducing the overall symmetry from orthorhombic to monoclinic . because crystallographic characterizations of all five polymorphous described in table 1 are difficult to reproduce , we will characterize the structural state of compound ( 1 ) in pharmaceutical samples only by means of its appearance as form a , as defined by pxrd .
