the present invention relates to a magnetic articulated sliding undercut mechanism for use with an apparatus for forming a plastic article from a sheet of plastic material heated to a predetermined forming temperature . the magnets are situated below the sliding undercut and , along with the stripper plate mechanism , help return the sliding undercut mechanism to its starting position after the thermoforming process has been completed . the use of the magnets also allows the sliding undercut mechanism to set itself in the same position every time it returns back to its molding or relaxed position .
fig1 is an exploded perspective side view of the first mold section 10 . the first mold section 10 comprises the forming cavity 11 having a forming surface 12 , the sliding undercut mechanisms 13 , a side retainer 14 that is located in front of the sliding undercut mechanisms 13 and coupled to the forming cavity 11 , and a bottom retainer 15 that is located underneath the sliding undercut mechanisms 13 and the side retainer 14 , is coupled to the forming cavity 11 , and has pockets 30 on its underside for the housing of magnets 16 . the magnets 16 are inserted into the pockets 30 and have their undersides coupled to the bottom retainer 15 . the forming cavity 11 and side and bottom retainers 14 , 15 are of a metal material , preferably aluminum . the sliding undercut mechanisms 13 are preferably stainless steel , but could be comprised of another metal material . for the purposes of this invention , the magnets 16 used were rare earth magnets . however , other magnets , such as alnico magnets , could also be used . the side and bottom retainers 14 , 15 are coupled to the forming cavity 11 and the magnets 16 are coupled to the bottom retainer 15 via coupling means 17 such as clamps , screws , fasteners , or a nut and bolt combination . the coupling means 17 preferably are aluminum or steel material , however the coupling means 17 may be comprised of any metal , metal alloy , or nonmetal that would provide rigid structural support . the sliding undercut mechanisms 13 contain the undercut forming elements 18 required to form the undercut portions 29 . fig2 is a cross sectional view of the thermoforming apparatus 20 . in addition to the elements of the first mold section 10 , as shown in fig1 , fig2 includes the second mold section 21 and the stripper plate mechanism 22 . the first and second mold sections 10 , 21 are shown in an advanced or forming position . the second mold section 21 is moved along a forming axis , designated in fig2 as a , in one direction toward the first mold section 10 for urging at least a portion of the heated plastic sheet 26 into the forming cavity 11 of the first mold section 10 to form the plastic article 25 while the undercut forming element 18 is in the forming position . the heated sheet 26 of thermoplastic material may be polyethylene , polystyrene , or other well known thermoplastic materials . the thermoplastic material is initially extruded into sheet form and is then fed into a heating station ( not shown ) where it is heated to the desired forming temperature . from the heating station , the heated sheet 26 is fed into the thermoforming apparatus 20 such that , as shown in fig3 , the sheet 26 is positioned between the first and second mold sections 10 , 21 . while not shown in the drawings , conventional means are provided for moving the first mold section 10 and the second mold section 21 toward and away from one another along an axial path designated in fig2 as forming axis a . the second mold section 21 , which is made from metal , preferably aluminum , includes a main body portion 23 having a downwardly extending assist plug 24 securely attached thereto . the assist plug is utilized to initially force a portion of the sheet 26 of the thermoplastic material downwardly into the forming cavity 11 of the first mold section 10 . at this time , a vacuum source ( not shown ) can be applied to various spaced apart vacuum ports that are present in the first mold section 10 and open into the upper portion of the forming cavity 11 . the vacuum is applied to the ports to ensure that the heated plastic is in intimate contact with the side wall of the forming cavity 11 . in addition , the heated plastic is also brought into contact with the forming cavity 11 by the simultaneous application of pressurized air through the second mold section 21 . the pressurized air is introduced into the second mold section 21 under the assist plug 24 . the second mold section 21 is encased in an airtight box commonly referred to as the plug base . the stripper plate mechanism 22 , which is comprised of metal , preferably aluminum , is mounted for selective vertical movement toward and away from the first mold section 10 . the stripper plate 22 works with the sliding undercut mechanism 12 to pull the formed plastic article 25 from the forming cavity 11 . while not shown in the drawings , conventional means , such as air cylinders , are provided for controlling the vertical movement of the stripper plate mechanism 22 . fig3 is a cross sectional view of the forming cavity 11 , sliding undercut mechanism 13 , stripper plate mechanism 22 , and the formed , untrimmed thermoplastic part 25 with scrap 26 still intact . after the part 25 is formed , the second mold section 21 moves a first predetermined distance away from the first mold section 10 along the forming axis in an opposite direction relative to both the forming cavity 11 and the undercut forming elements 18 for removal of the formed plastic article 25 from the forming cavity 11 . removal of the article 25 begins by firing the stripper plate air cylinders and having the stripper plate mechanism 22 gradually pull the sliding undercut mechanism 13 upwards along a given angle a second predetermined distance in the same direction as the second mold section 21 . as the stripper plate 22 moves upwards , the undercut mechanism 13 is moving in both the upwards direction and sideways . the amount of stripper movement , along with the degree of total undercut for any particular design , aids in determining the angle that the undercut mechanism 13 must be positioned . for the purposes of this invention , the angle θ is between about 10 degrees and about 30 degrees relative to an axis b that is perpendicular to the first mold section 10 . the depth of the undercut 18 is also shown more clearly in fig3 . the undercut 18 can be of any depth , but for the purposes of this invention the depth ranges from between about one   eighth inch to about three   sixteenth inch . when the part 25 is finally free from the forming cavity 11 and sliding undercut mechanism 13 , the stripper plate air cylinders will relax and allow the stripper plate mechanism 22 to return to the relaxed or starting position . while the stipper plate mechanism 22 is returning to the relaxed position , the sliding undercut mechanism 13 will also start to move back down to the rest or relaxed position . when the stripper plate mechanism 22 returns to the full down rest or relaxed position , the magnets 16 will further pull the sliding undercut mechanism 13 back to its starting or relaxed position . the usage of the magnets 16 also allows the sliding undercut mechanism 13 to set itself in the same position every time the stripper plate mechanism 22 starts its way back to the molding or relaxed position . the untrimmed thermoplastic part 25 can be transferred to a cutting station where the individual plastic article 25 can be cut from the plastic sheet 26 . fig4 is a perspective view of the single formed thermoplastic part 25 . the part 25 includes a generally rectangular base 27 surrounded by tapered walls 28 extending downwardly and slightly outwardly from the base 27 . the walls 28 are provided with undercut portions 29 . while the apparatus 20 illustrated in the drawings is specifically designed to form the undercut portion 29 in the article 25 , it will be appreciated that the apparatus 20 could readily be adapted to form other types of articles having different undercut configurations . for example , the article 25 could be of a cylindrical design and / or the undercut portion could be located at a different location along the wall 28 of the article 25 . further , as will be appreciated , means can be provided for forming a single or a plurality of undercut portions 29 along the sidewall 28 of the plastic article 25 . also , while the drawings illustrate one portion of the forming apparatus utilized for producing a single plastic article , the forming apparatus 20 can include a plurality of singular forming mechanisms for simultaneously forming a plurality of plastic articles . having described the presently preferred embodiments , it is to be understood that the invention may be otherwise embodied within the scope of the appended claims .
