a system top deliver liquid egg product in aliquot portions respective to a selected number of eggs , the system being totally contained in a cooled surround .
while this system need not be contained principally in a refrigerator or refrigerated work counter , it is an important advantage that it can be . accordingly a work counter 10 is shown with a plurality of metal inserts 11 , 12 , whose sides and bottoms are refrigerated , usually by cold air , but occasionally with chilled water . these will usually contain various ingredients of omelettes . one of them , insert 11 , associated with the liquid egg product . the refrigerated enclosure shown schematically by line 20 has a support 21 to hold a plastic bag 22 filled with liquid egg . a tubing 23 sometimes called an umbilical cord leads from the bag to a free end 24 . it is usually a separate tubing attached to the bag . the free end of tubing 23 is closed until it is connected into the system by a coupler 26 . an optional off   on shut   off valve 25 may be provided to which tubing 23 can be connected . the term “ peristaltic pump ” is used herein to define a pump which delivers liquid product in aliquot portions respective to a pulsed action . a pulsed action means that there is no contact of the product in the pump structure except for contact with the tubing in which it is conveyed . for example it does not include piston   cylinder types in which a piston directly contacts the product . this invention utilizes the advantageous roller   type peristaltic pump . other types exist which can be used that utilize isolated valving techniques , but the roller type offers significant advantages in the environment where these pumps will be used , not the least of which is their capacity for convenient and quick sanitizing . a peristaltic pump 30 is connected to this outlet of the shut   off valve or to the tubing from the bag . its principal characteristic is that the egg product does not come into contact with any of the mechanism of the pump itself . instead , as shown in fig2 and 3 , the pump includes a length of springly flexible pump tubing 31 that tends to be self   shaped retaining , but which can be pinched closed . when a pinching force is removed , the tubing will reopen to its full extent . an arcuate race 32 backs up the tubing . a pair of rollers 33 , 34 are rotatably mounted at a center 35 for rotation parallel to the race . for convenience these are called rollers , although they could instead merely slide along the tubing . when in contact with the tubing they pinch it closed . as they move along the tubing they displace the egg product ahead of the pinch . the volume delivered is thereby determined by the passage of the rollers . in the illustration , the rollers are spaced apart by 180 degrees , so that when they are closed there is no free flow through the pump . fig2 shows the rollers in an open position out of contact with the tubing . the tubing can then be removed and replaced , or if desired , cleaned out by a pressurized flow of sanitizing fluid forced through it . also , when the system is set up and empty , it can be primed . the rollers are rotated around center 35 by a motor 36 . the motor is powered by a source 37 enabled by control 40 . this control is provided with several switches 41 , 42 , 43 and 44 . as examples , switches 41 , 42 , and 43 are respective to running times for delivery of one , two or three eggs . switch 44 can run the system independently of time . the cook can then draw as much egg product as he desires , or can run sanitizing solution through the system , or can run egg product to prime the system when the system is empty . control 40 includes timers respective to the running times needed for the respective deliveries . alternatively , the pump can be proportioned to deliver one egg per revolution . delivery hose 50 receives product from the pump and delivers it to its delivery end 51 . if desired , a nozzle or a spout can be provided there . the hose passes through a notch 52 or hole in the insert so that it is always in a cooled region . the delivery hose downstream from the pump will always be filled with egg product , but because the hose is chilled , the product is safe . further , it is shielded from the air — it is not exposed until after it leaves the hose , as it would be if it merely were poured into the insert . the end of the delivery hose can also be provided with a handle , but it is potentially advantageous both to cover the hose end and the insert to keep them clean and cold . for this purpose a removable lid 55 can be laid on the top of the insert , with the hose end attached to its underside . then a handle 56 can be attached to the top of the lid for convenient manipulation . so that lid and hose can be set down without contaminating the hose , a leg 57 or legs project from the bottom of the lid . these can enter the insert when the lid is on , but as shown in fig4 , they will hold the hose end up above the work surface . a notch 58 in the lid will pass the hose in the position of fig4 . as a further advantage , the leg or legs can be long enough to support the lid and the delivering end high enough above the work table that a pan can be shoved under neath them . then the cook need not hold the lid or the pan while egg is discharged into the pan . the delivery hose will be equipped with sufficient length that it can be pulled out as desired , and returned to the enclosure . this invention thereby provides a sanitary , reliable and convenient system to deliver egg product directly to the cooking pan in a desired amount . this invention is not to be limited by the embodiments shown in the drawings and described in the description , which are given by way of example and not of limitation , but only in accordance with the scope of the appended claims .
