a device on hand machine tools is suggested for the transmission of torque to percussion drilling tools in which at least two rotary driving grooves open out at the end of the tool shaft and strip   shaped rotary drivers of the tool shaft engage in these rotary driving grooves and include assigned flanks , which are at least approximately planar , and in which locking members are arranged in the tool receptacle and cooperate with two recesses in the tool shaft which are closed on both sides and lie diametrically opposite one another . in order to avoid incorrectly reversed insertion of tools with driving grooves which are worn out due to intensive wear , the latter are distributed along the circumference of the tool shaft in such a way that two rotary driving grooves can in no case lie diametrically opposite one another .
a tool spindle 2 extends out of the end of the housing of a drill hammer 1 , which end is on the side of the workpiece and is only shown in part . the tool spindle 2 transmits a torque on the one hand and axial strokes , on the other hand , to a tool receptacle 3 which is securely connected with it . the tool shaft 5 of a drill 6 is inserted into the concentric receptacle bore hole 4 of the tool holder 3 . two recesses 7 which are closed in the axial direction at both sides are arranged at the tool shaft 5 so as to be located opposite one another on a diagonal line ; assigned locking bodies 8 of the tool holder 3 are constructed as balls to engage in the recesses 7 . as can be seen in fig2 the slot   or groove   like recesses 7 have a circular   cylindrical cross   sectional shape . the locking bodies 8 can move out of the recesses 7 of the tool shaft 5 by means of axial displacement of a sleeve 12 , so that the drill 6 can be removed from the tool holder 3 . in addition to the recesses 7 , rotary driving grooves 9 opening out at the end of the tool shaft 5 are arranged at the tool shaft 5 . as can be seen in fig2 the rotary driving grooves 9 are situated so as to be offset at different angles relative to the recesses 7 . the rotary driving grooves 9 have two planar flanks 10 which extend at least approximately radially and cooperate with assigned surfaces of strip   shaped rotary drivers 11 which are arranged at the cylindrical inner wall of the receptacle bore hole 4 of the tool receptacle 3 . the rear end of the tool shaft contacts an anvil continuation 2 &# 39 ; of the tool spindle 2 of the drill hammer , which anvil continuation 2 &# 39 ; transmits the axial strokes . the front portion of the drill 6 located in the front of the tool shaft 5 is constructed in a conventional manner , a view of the latter being omitted in the drawing for this reason . a portion of the drill 6 which contains a conveying spiral for carrying away drillings knocked loose from the drilling head adjoins a drillings head comprising carbide cutting edges . as can be seen from fig2 one of the rotary driving grooves 9 is angularly offset by approximately 90 ° relative to the recesses 7 , while the other rotary driving groove is angularly offset in an assymmetrical manner relative to the recesses 7 . it is advisable for reasons of stability to arrange the rotary groove 9 in such a way that the flank 10 &# 39 ; transmitting the torque during operation is farther from the recess 7 adjacent to it than the flank 10 &# 34 ; is from the recess adjacent to it . during rotation of the tool spindle 2 , the torque is transmitted to the tool shaft 5 of the drill 6 via the rotary drivers 11 engaging in the rotary driving grooves 9 . very favorable conditions result from the planar flanks 10 , which extend at least approximately radially , and the assigned surfaces of the strip   shaped rotary drivers 11 , since the forces to be transmitted are approximately normal on the cooperating surfaces . the force transmission always occurs    even in the state of advanced wear    at surfaces and not ultimately at the edges of the recesses . the recess 7 arranged in the tool shaft 5 serve only for the axial locking of the drill shaft in the tool receptacle 3 . the stress and accordingly also the wear on the locking bodies 8 , which are constructed as balls , is very sharply reduced by means of this . a second embodiment of the tool shaft designated here by 13 is shown in fig3 and 4 of the drawing . recesses 7 which correspond to the recesses 7 of the first embodiment ( fig1 and 2 ) are again arranged at the tool shaft 13 . with reference to the circumference of the tool shaft 13 , one rotary driving groove 14 is arranged between the two recesses 7 on one side and two rotary driving grooves 15 , 16 are arranged on the other side . fig5 and 6 show an embodiment which is distinguished from that according to fig3 and 4 in that in the first case two rotary driving grooves 18 , 19 ; 20 , 21 are arranged between the recesses 7 in the tool shaft 17 . fig7 and 8 show an embodiment in which two ( 23 , 24 ) driver grooves are arranged in the tool shaft 22 between the recesses 7 on one side and three ( 25 , 26 , 27 ) driver grooves are arranged between the recesses 7 on the other side in the tool shaft 22 . the advantage of the arrangement according to fig3 to 8 consists in that the specific surface loading during the transmission of the driving moment is smaller the more driving grooves are present . the wear is also smaller to this extent . when using a plurality of grooves in the tool shaft , it may happen that , when the tool shaft is inserted into the tool holder and the correct drill position is sought by means of rotating to both sides , the front side of the tool shaft and the front sides of the opposite rotary drivers slide along one another in the manner of a catch until the correct inserting position is found . this not only impedes handling when inserting a tool into the tool receptacle , but is also irritating for the operator . a remedy is provided for this by means of an embodiment form shown in fig9 and 10 . as can be seen from fig9 the tool shaft 28 comprises rotary driving grooves of different depths . in the shown embodiment , a rotary driving groove 29 having a greater depth is located opposite two rotary driving grooves 30 , 31 of shallower depth . strip   shaped rotary drivers 34 , 35 , 36 are arranged at the cylindrical inner wall of the receiving bore hole 33 of the tool receptacle 32 . the rotary driver 34 projecting farther forward is intended for cooperation with the rotary driving groove 29 , the rotary drivers 35 , 36 which project forward less far engage in the rotary driving grooves 30 , 31 . the tool shaft 28 has a conical inserting bevel 37 at its front side . the latter encloses an angle α with the tool axis 38 . the bevel 37 is dimensioned in such a way that it cuts into the bases 39 of the rotary driving grooves 30 , 31 , while leaving the base 40 of the rotary driving groove 29 untouched . the rotary drivers 34 , 35 and 36 are provided with inserting bevels 41 at their front sides on the tool side , which inserting bevels 41 enclose an angle β with the axis of the tool receptacle 32 coinciding with the axis 38 . after the insertion of a tool shaft 28 in the receiving bore hole 33 of the tool receptacle 32 , the rotary driving grooves 29 , 30 , 31 will generally not meet exactly on the respective rotary drivers 34 , 35 , 36 . rather , it is necessary to rotate the tool shaft 28 in the receiving bore hole around the axis 38 until the rotary driving grooves and the rotary drivers are located opposite one another so as to fit in with one another and the tool can be completely inserted into the tool receptacle . until this point , the tool shaft 28 is supported against the inserting bevel 41 of the rotary driver 34 with the edge 42 formed by its front side in connection with the spherical outer surface area of the inserting bevel 37 . during the rotation of the tool , the edge 42 moves smoothly along the inserting bevel 41 in a sliding manner until the rotary driving groove 29 is located opposite the rotary driver 34 and the rotary driving grooves 30 , 31 are located opposite the rotary drivers 35 , 36 and the tool shaft can be completely inserted into the tool receptacle . two additional embodiments of a tool shaft constructed according to the invention are shown in fig1 and 12 . a coding which contains the tool   dependent data is arranged at the base of the rotary driving grooves 49 , 50 opening out at the end of the tool shaft 48 , 58 ( compare xi , xii in fig1 ). this data can refer to the type of tool    drill or chisel   , the tool dimensions    drill diameter    or the material of the tool    drill comprising heavy   duty tool steel or drill with carbide plating . in the embodiment according to fig1 , the coding consists of a bar code which is painted on . in the embodiment shown in fig1 , the coding is formed by means of areas which are formed in the shape of stripes and comprise different surface roughness at the base of the rotary driving groove 59 . this surface roughness can be produced on the one hand by means of chemical abrasion processes or can also be produced mechanically , e . g . in the manner of file cutting . in addition to these two examples , it is also possible to achieve the coding by means of other geometric differences , e . g . different widths of the rotary driving grooves . the coding is read by mechanical or electrical sensors , known per se , and converted into a mechanical or electrical signal which switches corresponding mechanical or electrical couplings , or is fed , as an electrical signal , to the electronic control unit of the hand machine tool . the selection of determined rates of rotation , striking speeds , individual striking energy , response time of the safety clutch , turning off the drill drive or the striking mechanism , slow starting or changes of other machine parameters can be achieved by means of this . the arrangement of the coding constitutes an advisable feature of the tools , according to the invention , since the rotary driving groove carrying the coding or the recess carrying the coding , which recess is closed on both sides , can always be inserted into the assigned tool receptacle in the same angular position only when using shafts of tools which are constructed according to the invention . this is necessary in order to be effective if the mechanical or electrical sensor for reading the coding in the tool receptacle is to be used . it will be understood that each of the elements described above , or two or more together , may also find a useful application in other types of constructions differing from the types described above . while the invention has been illustrated and described as embodied in a tool shaft for a tool of the percussive and rotative type , it is not intended to be limited to the details shown , since various modifications and structural changes may be made without departing in any way from the spirit of the present invention . without further analysis , the foregoing will so fully reveal the gist of the present invention that others can , by applying current knowledge , readily adapt it for various applications without omitting features that , from the standpoint of prior art , fairly constitute essential characteristics of the generic or specific aspects of this invention .
