an accessory for bicycles or tricycles for producing a motorcycle   like sound appealing to youngsters . the device being constructed of a strip of relatively hard but flexible material formed into a shape having : a flat region engaging the spokes of the bicycle wheel ; an &# 34 ; s &# 34 ; shaped region providing flexibility thereby allowing the flat region to move as the spokes impinge on it ; a semi   tubular region lined with a hook type fastener material for attaching to a fork element of the bicycle ; and a handle as an aid for spreading apart the semi   tubular region to attach the accessory to the fork element .
the sound producing accessory is constructed of a flat strip of thin , flexible plastic material . the stiffness of the material is such that it can be bent easily by hand but is stiff enough to emit a snappy sound when it is impacted by the spokes of the bicycle wheel . typically , the strip of material is approximately 50 millimeters ( 2 inches ) wide and 0 . 76 ( 0 . 030 ) to 1 . 52 millimeters ( 0 . 060 inches ) thick and preferably made from a durable plastic such as polypropylene , high density polyethylene or polyester to withstand constant flexing over a long period of time . however , other materials such as nylons , acetals , polycarbonate , vinyl , polystyrene , laminated fibrous materials or various plasticized materials , cardboard , paper , etc . could be utilized for its construction . fig1 and 2 show a typical embodiment of a sound producing accessory 12 attached to a horizontal rear fork element 16 of a bicycle 10 at 12b on fig1 and generally at 12 on fig2 . the sound producing accessory 12 is constructed of a single piece of material but consists of four functionally different regions . a flat region or blade 32 approximately 57 millimeters ( 21 / 4 inches ) long is the sound producing , vibrating member . it is joined to an &# 34 ; s &# 34 ; shaped region 28 having at least two oppositely directed bends which provide additional flexibility for a long usable life . the &# 34 ; s &# 34 ; shaped region 28 is adjacent to a semi   tubular region 30 which is formed into a diameter of about 19 millimeters ( 3 / 4 inch ) for the purpose of attaching to fork element 16 on bicycle 10 . the continuation of tubular region 30 as it wraps around fork element 16 is bent outward slightly at the end to form a handle $ 4 to aid in attaching or detaching device 12 from bicycle 10 . the inside surface of semi   tubular region 30 is lined with hook fastener strips 26 generally known as velcro brand , available from velcro u . s . a . inc . of manchester , n . h . or the like . the bicycle fork 16 is wrapped with adhesive backed loop fastener material 24 at the location where the sound producing device 12 is to be attached . this is also known as velcro brand and supplied as a mate to hook fastener material 26 . loop fastener material 24 should preferably be about the same width as the with of sound producing device 12 and be applied continuously around bicycle fork member 16 , however hook fastener 26 may be applied in at least two strips across the width of semi   tubular region 30 as illustrated in fig2 and fig3 . additional embodiments are shown in fig4 and 5 ; in fig4 semi   tubular region 30 has been replaced by a semi   oval region 36 to suit an oval front wheel fork cross section 14 . as seen from this example , the semi   tubular region 30 can assume various shapes to adapt to different or unusual cross   sectional shapes of wheel fork elements , if required . in fig5 the rectangularly shaped blade 32 has been modified to a tongue shaped blade 38 with angular sides and a rounded end . it also is shown with holes punched through it . many other possibilities exist in varying the width , length and shape of the blade 32 to alter the sound characteristics of the device as well as its visual appeal . the &# 34 ; s &# 34 ; shaped region 28 may be altered in that the number of convolutions may be varied or eliminated entirely . one such embodiment is shown in fig7 where semi   tubular region 30 is joined directly to flat region 32 without the intervening &# 34 ; s &# 34 ; shaped region 28 . an additional top handle 42 has been added for convenience of installing the device on the bicycle . this type of configuration , without the &# 34 ; s &# 34 ; shaped region 28 is limited to a very few flexible materials such as polypropylene to achieve an acceptable product life . handle 34 may also be altered in shape , angle of protrusion or it may he eliminated entirely with consequences which will become obvious from the following description of operation . another embodiment is shown in fig8 where blade 32 is centrally located on semi   tubular region 30 and where two centrally located handles 34 and three strips of hook fastener 26 are provided . a further embodiment is shown in fig9 where the &# 34 ; s &# 34 ; shaped region 28 has been replaced by a convoluted region 44 having at least two oppositely directed bends . the device may be constructed of various colored materials , including fluorescent or luminescent shades and it may be adorned by colorful labels to make the product more appealing to youngsters . fig1 illustrates sound producing accessory 12 attached to bicycle 10 in two alternate locations ; front fork location at 12a and horizontal rear fork location at 12b . the locations illustrated are on the left side of the bicycle , however , the right side of the bicycle may he used as well , provided that accessory 12 in its preferred embodiment shown in fig2 and 3 is mounted in such a way that spokes 22 always approach blade from above , as indicated by three long arrows in fig3 to deflect blade 32 to a position shown at s2a . to install sound producing accessory 12 on bicycle 10 , select a convenient location on one of the wheel forks , observing that the spokes 22 in the circumferential path of blade 32 will not contain other spoke mounted accessories such as reflectors etc . which may impact blade 32 as the wheels 18 and 20 rotate . apply self   adhesive backed loop fastener 24 completely around the fork element and cut off excess . grasp the width of the device at &# 34 ; s &# 34 ; bend 28 with one hand and handle 34 with the other hand and spread semi   tubular region 30 enough to pass over a front fork element 14 or a rear fork element 16 . position blade 32 at approximately right angle to the path of wheel spokes 22 so that blade 32 is in a direct path of spokes 22 and press hook fasteners 26 in contact with mating loop fastener 24 . as bicycle wheel 20 ( fig1 ) rotates , each spoke 22 deflects blade 32 to position 32a , shown in fig3 before the blade 32 snaps back and impacts the next approaching spoke . the impact produces the characteristic slapping or rumbling sound as the wheel rotates . &# 34 ; s &# 34 ; bend region 28 provides the necessary flexibility and distributes stresses induced by the repetitive flexing to a much greater area thereby greatly increasing the usable lifetime of the device . when blade 32 flexes , it imparts a force to the adjoining area of semi   tubular region 30 . this force is directed inward as shown by the four short arrows in fig3 and causes hook and loop fasteners 24 and 26 to engage more deeply , resisting rotation around circularly shaped wheel fork element 18 . due to the flexibility and springiness of the material , the semi   tubular region 30 may he opened to at least a diameter of 8 millimeters ( 11 / 2 inches ). fig6 shows the device spread open and mounted to a large diameter wheel fork 40 , whereas fig4 illustrates attachment to an oval front wheel fork 14 . thus fig4 and 6 show that the sound producing device may he installed on a variety of bicycle wheel fork sizes and configurations . other embodiments of the sound producing accessory are shown in fig5 , 8 and 9 . fig5 illustrates a tongue   shaped rounded end blade 38 with optional holes through it . the shape of the blade and the holes alter the quality , or timber , of the sound produced . many different sizes and shapes of the sound producing blade are possible . fig7 shows an embodiment which omits &# 34 ; s &# 34 ; shaped region 28 . in this configuration of the device , a second handle 42 is added at the top surface of blade 32 to aid installation . fig8 shows another embodiment which is of symmetrical design and can thus be installed in identical fashion on either right or left side of bicycle 10 without regard to the direction of travel of spokes 22 . the convoluted region 44 shown in fig9 is an alternate means of providing flexibility to blade 32 for a long use life of the product . it is evident that the sound producing accessory described may he easily attached to or detached from a bicycle by even very young children . the construction of the device is such that a child need not use any tools nor need additional articles of hardware , to securely install the device . the device will not loosen or detach itself during use . furthermore , the fingers of the installer need not he near the spokes of the wheel while attaching the device , in its preferred embodiment , to the bicycle , thus the installation is safe . the device may be attached to a variety of bicycle wheel fork sizes and configurations at several locations on the bicycle frame , including a vertical rear fork location ( not shown ). the accessory will in its preferred embodiment have an almost unlimited life , providing many hours of a motorcycle   like sound to the amusement of youngsters . the accessory may be inexpensively produced in volume by using well established plastic processing techniques such as heat forming , profile extrusion , or injection molding . while the above description contains many specific features of the invention , these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention , but rather as an exemplification of one preferred embodiment thereof . many other variations are possible , for example , the width , length or shape of the blade 32 may be altered to assume a configuration which is triangular , elliptical , trapezoidal , rounded etc . the &# 34 ; s &# 34 ; shaped region 28 may be altered to have larger or smaller bend radii , or the convolutions may be longer or shorter ; the number of them may be increased to three , four , five , or more . semi   tubular region 30 may be larger or smaller in diameter , or assume oval , rectangular , triangular , or any other shape . handle 34 may have a shallow or a sharper bend or be eliminated entirely . the strips of hook and loop fasteners 24 and 26 may be longer , shorter , wider , narrower or have any other convenient shape , or they may have their positions reversed , loop fastener 24 replacing hook fastener 26 and vice versa . the hook and loop fasteners 24 and 26 may be replaced by other methods of attachment such as adhesives , double   sided adhesive tape , etc . which will serve to attach the accessory securely to the bicycle . the cross sectional area of the strip of material that the accessory is made of may be uniformly thin and rectangular , or tapered to suit the manufacturing process used . color , material , texture , etc . may be changed to suit any particular taste , and labeling may be added to enhance appearance . accordingly , the scope of the invention should be determined not by the embodiments illustrated , but by the appended claims and their legal equivalents .
