a method and apparatus for simultaneously cutting and directing fluid into the stem of a tabacco plant , the apparatus including having a liquid delivery blade , a source of fluid communicating with to the underside of the blade , an associated power source for rotating the liquid delivery blade at a sufficiently high speed “ top ” tobacco plants .
referring now to the drawings , and particularly to fig1 the prior art method is illustrated by fig1 , and 3 . fig4 and 5 are representative of the present invention . fig1 is an isometric view of a tobacco plant shown generally at 10 , after flower cropping showing suckers 12 . fig2 is an isometric view of the tobacco plant 10 shown in fig1 showing a known spraying application of plant growth control chemical to the plant 10 . fig3 is an isometric view of the tobacco plant 10 shown in fig1 and 2 showing a known dripping application of plant growth control chemical over the plant 10 immediately after spraying . it should be noted that presently the most effective active ingredient in the market for plant growth regulation is prime +® which is produced by novartis corp . the present invention incorporates prime +® as the active ingredient . however , the present invention is not intended to be limited to incorporating prime + 200 and may incorporate royal mh   30 ®, stronghold ™, garlon 3a ™, accord ™ or any other active ingredient . regardless of the particular active ingredient , the present invention eliminates repeated passes over tobacco fields for topping and sucker control , and uses less than 1 % of the active ingredient used in the known method because the active ingredients applied directly into , not onto , the tobacco plant by the present invention . the term “ flumetralin ” is the common name for the active ingredient in the commercial product prime +® and is a plant growth regulator for control of tobacco suckers . the average reduction in suckers per plant at harvest is sixty two and five tenths percent ( 62 . 5 %) and the average reduction in weight of suckers per plant is eighty one and eight tenths percent ( 81 . 8 %). those skilled in the art of tobacco sucker control will appreciate such average reductions as acceptable sucker control . the present invention provides for the translocation of prime + 200 downward inside the stalk of the tobacco plant after which the plant growth regulator migrates into the suckers to control their growth . as illustrated in fig1 , and 3 , known systems incorporate a higher rate of prime +® in the spray volume which leads to an excess of the chemical that runs down the outside of the stalk , contacting suckers directly to control them . in tobacco sucker control , one of two complex procedural programs are commonly used . in program i , two to three applications of a fatty acid alcohol “ contact ” sucker chemical are used followed by : 1 ) mh   30 ; 2 ) a mixture of mh   30 and prime +®; 3 ) a mixture of mh   30 and contact alcohol ; or , 4 ) a procedure of first applying prime +® then mh   30 . additional treatments are not required later in the season when weather or geographical conditions do not permit continued sucker regrowth . in program ii , one either applies prime +® by hand over the top of each tobacco plant or one first applies a contact solution to the plant followed immediately by prime +®. the present invention eliminates all the aforementioned complicated , expensive treatments set forth in the aforementioned program i and program ii . the present invention allows tobacco growers to extract the tobacco flower and eliminate suckering in one pass over the tobacco field using a mechanical tobacco topper that is preferably fitted with a burch wet blade ® system . here the burch wet blades applies prime +® as the effective chemical . known tobacco sucker control systems inherently require a substantially larger volume of prime +® because , as previously mentioned above , the known systems require that the effective chemical physically run down the entire length of the tobacco plant , thereby contacting each sucker . in known applications , maleic hydrazide is sprayed over the top of each row of tobacco . once the leaves are wetted , the chemical is translocated throughout the plant , thereby killing suckers . this translocation is also the cause of unwanted maleic hydrazide residues in cured tobacco unless applied very carefully and properly . the present invention is preferably mounted on or adapted to currently available high   clearance equipment used in tobacco fields for mechanically topping tobacco plants . in a preferred embodiment , the present invention uses a burch wet blade ® that is described in patent cooperation treaty international publication no . wo 97 / 06664 ; international publication date feb . 27 , 1997 , and entitled “ apparatus and method for cutting and treating vegetation ” which is incorporated by reference herein . the present invention , incorporating the burch wet blade ®, causes prime +®, which is not normally translocated , to move down the stalk and kill all suckers as shown in fig4 and 5 . fig4 is an isometric view of a blade 45 for cropping off the upper section of a tobacco plant , described further hereinafter , with chemicals 17 being held onto the underside of the blade 45 in accordance with the present invention . fig5 is an isometric view of the aforementioned blade 45 when applying chemicals directly into the stalk 9 of the plant 10 in accordance with the present invention . the blade 45 being comprised of a cutting edge 18 , a blade wing 22 which is an air lift and a fluidly communicating means . as shown in fig4 the blade 45 is rotating toward the tobacco plant 10 , where said plant has an outgrowth of suckers 12 . the plant growth control chemicals 17 translocate down the stalk 9 when the chemicals 17 are applied in accordance with the present invention . in using the present invention , many applications and multiple toppings are eliminated along with undesirable maleic hydrazide residues in the cured tobacco leaves . fig6 is an isometric view of the resultant tobacco plant 10 having no suckers because of the effective application of plant growth control chemicals using the present invention . fig . s is a cross sectional view of a blade assembly for a tobacco topper in accordance with the present invention in one embodiment , the invented apparatus for simultaneously cutting and directing fluid into the stem of a tobacco plant comprises a blade assembly having at least one fluid bearing blade , shown generally at 45 , means for supplying fluid to the underside of each of the blades 45 , means for rotating the fluid bearing blades 45 at a high speed , and means for transporting said blade rotating means from one tobacco plant to another . the invented apparatus may further comprise a drive shaft 43 having a blade receiving end , shown generally at 23 , a housing 25 and a magazine mounting assembly . the blade assembly comprises a wetbar fluid distributor 62 that is removably coupled to the blade receiving end 23 of the shaft 43 . the other end of the shaft 43 is coupled to the rotating means the blades 45 are attached to the wetbar fluid distributor 62 and extend radially away from the drive shaft 43 . the blade 45 has means for delivering a plant growth control chemical to the topped surface of the tobacco plant . the shaft 43 comprises an axial fluid conduit 47 formed partially therein that has an inlet and an outlet , an input radial conduit 20 that is in fluid communication with the inlet of the axial conduit 47 and a fluid manifold 58 fluidly communicating to one or more of an output radial conduits 60 ( fig1 ), where all are in fluid communication with the outlet of the axial conduit 47 . the housing 25 is positioned adjacent the blade assembly mid coupled to the shaft 43 and comprises a bearing mechanism 46 that is coupled to said shaft 43 , an annular well 39 that is in fluid communication with the input radial conduit 20 , and a fluid tight fitting 41 formed in the housing 25 and extending from the annular well 39 to the exterior of said housing 25 . the blade assembly is preferably coupled to the shaft 43 using a wetbar fluid distributor jam nut 28 for securing the wetbar fluid distributor 62 to the shaft 43 . a bottom bearing keeper 23 is coupled to the shaft 43 and interposed between the housing 25 and the blade assembly . a lock nut 42 secures the housing 25 and the blade assembly to the shaft 43 . a top bearing keeper 40 is coupled to the shaft 43 and interposed between the lock nut 42 and the housing 25 . fig9 is a cross sectional view of the blade 45 showing the cutting edge 51 in accordance with the present invention . each blade includes a blade wing 22 and the cutting edge 51 . the blade wing is set to a pre   determined blade wing angle 53 . fig1 is a cross sectional view of a portion of the blade assembly in accordance with the present invention . the wetbar fluid distributor 62 comprises the previously mentioned centrally disposed fluid orifice 56 that is in fluid communication with the axial conduit 47 of said shaft 43 , and at least one orifice 64 extending generally radially away from the centrally disposed fluid orifice 56 and in fluid communication with the centrally disposed fluid conduit 56 . plant growth control chemical is provided via a fluid inlet 36 and through associated tubing 38 . the chemical is then received in the housing 25 by the fluid fitting 41 and accumulates in the well 39 . during operation of the invented apparatus , chemical is drawn into the inlet radial conduit 20 from the well 39 and travels down the axial conduit 47 to the blade assembly . the chemical then travels out of he axial conduit 47 , into the fluid conduit 58 of the wetbar fluid distributor 62 and into the radial conduits 60 . the chemical then accumulates on a blade contact surface 24 . fig1 is an isometric view of a portion of the tobacco topper structure in accordance with the present invention . the tobacco topper structure includes a magazine mounting frame 66 for coupling to the tobacco topper support frame for containing the plant growth control chemical , a chemical container magazine 68 fixedly attached to the magazine mounting frame 66 , a pump drive mounting frame 70 fixedly attached to the magazine mounting frame 66 , a metering pump bracket 74 and a metering pump 72 attached to the metering pump bracket . a simulation was conducted using hand clippers which simulate the action of the burch wet blade ®, successful tobacco sucker control results were recorded with three rates of flumetralin ( prime +®) sucker control chemical . approximately ½ gal . of solution was used per acre . thus , in the 50 % solution , approximately 0 . 3 pounds of active ingredient per acre was used . in contrast and for comparison , one gallon of prime +® is the recommended rate per acre when spraying which would provide approximately 1 . 2 pounds of active ingredient per acre . the 75 % solution provides approximately 0 . 45 pounds of active ingredient per acre and the full strength rate provides approximately 0 . 6 pounds of active ingredient per acre . this illustrates that using the invented method and apparatus , at least a 50 % reduction in the current labeled rate is available . the following illustrates the results of the field test using prime +® and royal mh   30 ®. in a field test using the present invention , the three rates of flumetralin ( prime +®) were : a . a 50 % solution of the commercial product ( diluted to 50 % with water ); c . a solution of the commercial product at full strength ( undiluted ). ** values per replication are an average of 10 plants sampled per replication . there were 25 plants total per replication . for all four rates of mh   30 treatments , there was an average of 3 . 5 % % reduction in the number of suckers per tobacco plant at harvest and an average reduction of 22 . 4 % weight ( grams ) of suckers per plant . surprisingly , this demonstrates that using mh   30 would not be commercially acceptable . for all three rates of prime +® ( averaged together ), there was a 62 . 5 % reduction in the number of suckers per plant and an 81 . 8 % reduction in weight of suckers per plant . these values are derived from comparing the number of suckers per plant and weight of sucker per plant to the water control used when topping . from these results , none of the mh   30 rates gave acceptable sucker control . in contrast , all of the prime +® rates gave acceptable sucker control . mh   30 was expected to be highly effective in the sucker control test because mh   30 is easily translocated in the tobacco plant when sprayed over   top and onto the leaves . on the other hand , prime +® was not expected to be effective since it is classed as a “ control   local   systemic ” type of growth regulator . that is , prime +® is not moved into sucker buds by application to leaves as mh   30 is applied . the prime +® solution must first wet the suckers directly . ** rating based on 0 = no injury , 5 = dead tobacco plants . from the results shown above , six plant growth control chemicals were tested . of these six chemicals , three , namely stronghold ™, garlon 3a ™, and accord ™, showed favorable results . a 50 % solution of stronghold ™ provided an approximately 81 % reduction in the number of suckers with slight crop damage . a 10 % solution of garlon 3a ™ provided an approximately 61 % reduction in the number of suckers with no injury . a 10 % solution of accord ™ gave an approximately 91 % reduction in the number of suckers with slight crop injury . stronghold ™ is a growth retardant for broad leafplants , garlon 3a ™ is a herbicide , and accord ™ is a formulation of roundup ™ herbicide without a surfactant added . these results indicate that the application of the present invention is effective at controlling sucker growth and more effective than conventional methods of applying plant growth control chemicals to tobacco plants . an alternative embodiment of the blade 45 that is shown in fig4 and 5 , may be seen in fig7 . the wedged blade 14 shown in fig7 being comprised of a cutting edge 18 , a blade wing 22 , said blade wing being is an air lift , and a fluidly communication means and a wedge 18 , when in use , has solution of chemical 17 disposed on the bottom surface of the blade 14 for topping tobacco plants . the wedge 18 disposed on the top surface of the wedged blade 14 assists the air lift in clearing away the severed portions of the tobacco plant . the airlift 16 is also disposed on the top surface of the blade shown in fig7 . as discussed in the international application wo 97 / 06664 , the airlift facilitates the retention of solution of chemical 17 on the bottom surface of the wedged blade 14 shown in fig7 . from the foregoing , it is readily apparent that i have invented an improved non   spray system which has shown superior qualities in applying systemic growth regulators ( growth retarding ) compounds . in this system , a rotating or reciprocating blade is continuously moistened with plant growth control chemical and cuts plants . the invented system simultaneously delivers enough plant growth control chemical to kill and prevent the growth of auxiliary buds , or suckers , and prevents future growth of the same after topping . the present invention simultaneously tops the tobacco plants and applies sufficient growth   regulator chemicals for adequate sucker control . advantages of the present invention include : ( 1 ) substantial time and financial savings to the grower since less chemical and fewer passes over the tobacco field would be needed ; ( 2 ) accurate application of the plant growth control chemical directly to the cut stem ; ( 3 ) eliminating off   target pesticide drift ; ( 4 ) reducing worker exposure to chemicals ; and ( 5 ) eliminating maleic hydrazide residues in cured tobacco leaf which currently is threatening the united states tobacco industry . the present invention also reduces failures of sucker control with maleic hydrazide due to rain wash off or drought conditions . it is to be understood that the foregoing description and specific embodiments are merely illustrative of the best mode of the invention and the principles thereof , and that various modifications and additions may be made to the apparatus by those skilled in the art , without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention , which is therefore understood to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims .
