a shipping container assembly for securing and stabilizing a load for truck transportation using recyclable components . the container assembly includes multiple support structures positioned about the load with oppositely disposed end cap assemblies to stabilize and protect the load which is comprises of multiple elongated units .
referring to fig1 of the drawings , a shipping container assembly 10 of the invention can be seen having a pair of intermediate support structures 11 and oppositely disposed end cap assemblies 12 . the intermediate support structures 11 are identical , each formed from a honeycomb cellulose base pad 13 , best seen in fig1 and 2 of the drawings and multiple pairs of upstanding support tubes 14 with overlying connecting elements 15 . the honeycomb base pads 13 have a honeycomb center of interconnected cellulose bands 16 on edge between upper and lower encasement paper skins 18 as will be well understood by those skilled in the art . as such , the base pads 13 provide a raised insulated surface for a load l illustrated in fig7 of the drawings . the upstanding support tubes 14 are of the &# 34 ; sonoco &# 34 ; post type in which layers of cellulose paper are wrapped around a mandrel , not shown , and glued and then removed providing a free standing rigid tubular assembly as illustrated in fig2 and 3 of the drawings . the overlying connecting elements 15 are made from a multiple layer of cardboard sheets of longitudinal flute construction having oppositely disposed right angular flaps 19 and 20 each of which is cut inwardly from its respective free ends to define bendable tabs 21 and 22 on each of said flaps . referring now to fig2   5 of the drawings , it will be seen that to assemble each of the intermediate support structures 11 first a connector element 15 is positioned flange side up on a flat surface . next the panel base 13 is positioned thereon and pairs of the supporting tubes 14 extend in oppositely disposed relationship between respective free ends of the panel base 13 and upstanding flanges 19 and 20 . a second connecting element 15 extends over the upstanding free ends of the support tubes 14 interconnecting same about the load l . the bendable tabs 21 and 22 on each of the flaps 19 and 20 are bent inwardly on each side of the respective support tube pairs 14 stabilizing same therewith . referring now to fig1 , 6 and 8 of the drawings , the load end cap assemblies 12 are illustrated . a panel base 13a of the hereinbefore described honeycomb construction with a pair of oppositely disposed upstanding support panels 17 that act as spacers are formed from fan folding sheets of triple layered cardboard 17a with longitudinal flutes 17b together as best seen in fig9 and 11 of the drawings . the end cap assemblies 12 have pre   formed two   part construction with a closure 25 defining a top 26 and foldable integral sidewalls 27 extending therefrom which are of a dimensional configuration to fit over and enclose the hereinbefore described assembled panel bases 13a , and support panels 17 illustrated in fig1 and 5 of the drawings and assembled in fig6   8 of the drawings . a retaining sleeve 25a is positioned over the sidewalls 27 when they are positioned on the respective ends of the load l . to complete the shipping container assembly 10 about the load l , pairs of elongated angle edge guards 28 and 29 extend along the entire length of the shipping assembly 10 in its respective interior corners which , in reality , would be on the outer perimeter upper and lower edges 30 and 31 of the load l shown in broken lines and as illustrated in fig4 of the drawings . the elongated angle edge guard pairs 28 and 29 are formed from cellulose material , specific cardboard , and are of a length greater than that of the load l so that the end cap assemblies will be uniform regardless of load length inconsistency . to secure the components of the shipping container assembly 10 on the load l , banding strips 32 preferably of synthetic resin material are employed around the internal support structures 11 as seen in fig3 of the drawings . alternately , auxiliary banding strips 32a can be secured about the end cap assemblies 12 as indicated by broken lines in fig6 of the drawings as will be well understood by those skilled in the art . the entire shipping container assembly 10 of the invention is then transversely stretch wrapped in elastic synthetic resin film 33 as best seen in fig7 of the drawings to form a contiguous monolithic bundle of material as will be well understood by those skilled in the art . the viability of such cellulose construction components of the shipping container assembly of the invention will be self   evident in that they can easily be processed and recycled creating a viable resource for the end receiver . the shipping container assembly 10 defines a stabilization system for the load l formed of multiple elongated containers c which have little torsional rigidity and thus requires special securing structures to provide ease of loading and unloading and stability in shipping . alternately , it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that substitution can be made for certain elements of the shipping container assembly 10 of the invention such as to substitute wood , not shown , in place of the vertical support &# 34 ; sonoco &# 34 ; tubes 14 if so desired without changing the structural integrity of the overall shipping container assembly . it will thus be seen that a new and useful shipping container assembly for non   rigid elongated loads has been illustrated and described and it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made therein without departing from the spirit of the invention .
