a surgical clip applier for use in closing wounds under the microscope in small blood vessels modifies a well   known clip applier system to make more steady and reliable the application of very small clips during surgery on a scale of vessel size of 2 mm in external diameter and smaller . the known device is modified internally so as to be capable of receiving a flexible remote actuation device which can be a cable release such as used for a camera shutter , or which can be a flexible hydraulic or pneumatic line as a force   transmitting device . thus , the surgeon can hold the clip applier very steadily at the site desired without contracting any intrinsic muscles while the cable release is depressed by another person , or with the surgeon &# 39 ; s other hand , or with a foot pedal .
in the drawings , fig1 shows a prior art clip applier 10 of the type marketed as vcs clip applier by auto suture company , division of u . s . surgical corporation of norwalk , conn . this clip applier is described above and is effective to dispense and apply a small clip ( clips not shown ) for closure of tissues in microsurgery , from a tip 12 of a stem 14 , extending from a handle 16 that the surgeon holds in the hand . as illustrated , the elongated stem 14 is much narrower than the elongated gripping handle 16 and rigidly projects forward from a forward end of the handle 16 . a pair of thumb / finger wings 18 are squeezed together by the surgeon when the tip has been correctly placed and a clip is to be applied . shortcomings of this device are described above , particularly for microsurgery on blood vessels under 2 mm or other very small surgical sites , the clip placement being performed under the microscope ; and for endoscopic surgery or other use in narrow , difficult areas . the clip applier 10 has a rotation wheel 20 to enable the surgeon to adjust the rotational orientation of the stem 14 to any desired direction . this wheel is not needed in a revised round handle described below . fig2 , again showing the prior art clip applier 10 , reveals the important internal components which effect clip dispensing and with which the invention is concerned . the handle 16 includes two shells or halves 22 and 24 , shown disassembled in fig2 . the thumb / finger wings 18 are shown removed from the shells and indicating that these components have long legs 26 which pivot in the bottom end of the handle , on a pivot pin 28 . when squeezed toward one another in the assembled tool , these wings 18 are effective to push outwardly by camming action a triangular   shaped hollow movable member 30 which is biased downwardly in the handle by a compression coil spring 32 , toward the normal resting position shown in fig2 . the wings 18 when squeezed inwardly engage sloped surfaces 34 on the triangular movable member 30 to force that member upwardly , and this in turn forces upwardly ( outwardly ) a clip   applying component 36 which is generally c   shaped in cross section and which rides along the stem 14 . when the clip   applying component slides upwardly , it causes a clip to be crimped and dispensed from the tip 12 onto the tissue to be closed or joined . the movable member 30 has a tubular stem 38 that is connected to the clip   applying component 36 , so that sliding motion of the movable member 30 causes the same motion of the clip   applying component . as seen in fig2 and 3 , the reason for the hollow movable member 30 , which has a bore throughout its length , is to allow a rod 40 to pass through the member , up to near the tip of the clip applier , where it advances stored clips in a magazine in the stem , each time a clip is dispensed . the rod 40 is biased toward the advancing direction by a roll   up metal spring 42 , which has a tail 44 secured in the handle and which engages against a contoured tail part 46 on the rod . fig3 shows the spring 42 engaged against the contoured tail part 46 , urging the rod 40 in the advancing , forward or upward direction shown by the arrow 48 . the tail part 46 rides in a channel 50 formed in the handle , preferably formed in part by each of the halves . as can be seen from fig2 , 3 and 4 , the roll   up coil spring 42 nests against the tail part 46 on the rod and advances in the rolling   up direction to push the rod and clips forward ( upward ) with a relatively light pressure , until all of the clips have been dispensed . all of the above describes the prior art vcs clip applier , and further details regarding the clip magazine and the manner of dispensing are not important to the understanding of the invention . fig5 shows the invention . a flexible , remote force   applying device 52 , mechanical or hydraulic , is attached to a modified form of the clip applier 10 a , at a tail end 54 of the tool &# 39 ; s handle , and the thumb / finger wings 18 are eliminated . fig5   8 show the modified instrument , which preferably is cylindrical . a cylindrical handle 16 a allows elimination of the swivel wheel 20 , not needed when the handle is round . as shown in fig5 , the remote device 52 may comprise a simple cable release useful with a camera . such a cable release has a flexible cable sheath 56 and an internal flexible cable capable of delivering a compressive pushing force through the sheath . a thumb button 58 at a remote end of the device serves to receive thumb force , while a hand grip 60 permits comfortable gripping . thus , the grip area 60 is held between the fingers while the thumb is used to push in on the thumb button or plunger 58 , and this causes a tail piece 61 ( see fig6 , not shown in fig5 ) to extend out of a tail end 62 , or proximal end relative to the device 10 a . the tail piece as it extends from the proximal end 62 of the cable release device engages and slides forward a component in the clip applier so as to cause the clip   applying component 36 to slide forward and dispense a clip , without movement at the place of contact . although several different arrangements are possible for transferring the motion and force of the cable release &# 39 ; s tail piece 61 into motion of the clip   applying component 36 , fig6 through 8 show one preferred structural arrangement , particularly for use with the vcs clip applier as that instrument is constituted . the internal mechanical aspects of the clip applier handle could be modified or manufactured more efficiently to reflect the omission of the thumb / finger force wings 18 , and if so the internal components added pursuant to the invention could be different and simpler . the tail end 54 of the clip applier &# 39 ; s handle 16 a is fitted with a female thread in a bell   shaped fitting 64 , since the cable release device 52 typically has a male thread on the end of the metal tail or proximal end 62 . thus , the cable release is screwed into the back end of the clip applier , although the two could be manufactured as one single , non   separable unit if desired . the prior art clip applier mentioned above has been sold as a disposable instrument , and this can be a consideration in including a screw fitting . fig8 shows the fitting 64 seated in the tail end of the handle for the purpose of screw assembly with the cable release . fig6 shows the handle disassembled with the two halves 22 a and 24 a lying beside the clip advancing and applying assembly which comprises the position adjustment wheel 20 ( optional ), the stem 14 , the clip   applying component 36 , the compression spring 32 , and a revised movable member 30 a ( ramps not needed ), connected tubular stem extension 38 , and the clip magazine rod 40 with its tail part 46 . surrounding the rod 40 is an advancer frame 66 which acts as a linkage member or linkage means within the handle to receive force from the cable release and transfer it ultimately to the clip   applying component 36 to crimp and dispense a clip . in fig6 , the rod has been assembled through a hole provided in an upper end 68 of the advancer frame , and the roll   up spring 42 of the clip mechanism is shown held back using a temporary pin 70 that does not form a part of the assembly . the spring 42 is held back for the purpose of assembling the advancer frame and attached components into the handle , then the pin 70 is removed . fig7 is an enlarged view showing a portion of the device , with the advancer frame 66 assembled into the handle half 22 a , and with the roll   up spring 40 returned to its position of bearing against the rod tail part 46 . these components 40 and 46 lie within a central elongated opening 72 of the advancer frame , allowing a range of travel for the roll   up spring . as shown , the upper end or forward end 68 of the advancer frame bears against the movable member 30 a , thus being positioned to push the movable member 30 a forward against the bias of the compression spring 32 when a clip is to be dispensed . fig8 shows the modified , remotely operable clip applier assembled , except that the handle half or shell 24 a has not yet been secured to the handle half 22 a . on assembly , the two halves can be retained together by adhesive or by fasteners . again , the positioning wheel 20 can be eliminated , and preferably is eliminated with the handle being made round so that it can comfortably be oriented in any rotational direction . as noted above , the remote actuation of the clip applier can be by flexible devices other than the particular type of cable release shown in fig5   8 . a cable device with a coarse screw thread could be provided , so that a twisting motion of an extending distal end piece will rotate a component on a screw thread to move it axially so as to apply axial force at the tail end of the handle , as required to move the linkage member and the movable member forward in the clip applier so as to dispense a clip . another simple alternative is shown in fig9 and 10 , where hydraulic pressure is used to move the linkage means and in turn the movable member , via an alternative form of cable release device . in any of these alternatives the linkage device , i . e . the advancer frame 66 , could be integral with the movable member 30 a ( wings removed ) if desired , or differently   designed internal components for applying the requisite axial force to dispense and crimp a clip could be employed , particularly if the clip magazine rod 40 and spring 42 were rearranged in position . what is important is that the flexible actuating device be attached to the tail end of the instrument handle , so as to be capable of delivering a remotely applied force ultimately to dispense and crimp a clip into the desired position without requiring finger / thumb squeezing motion on the handle , particularly near the forward tip of the handle as was required previously . fig1 is a simplified view , omitting the magazine rod 40 and spring 46 , which can be similar to what is shown in the previous drawings . fig9 shows a remote plunger 80 , which can be a syringe , e . g . a 10 cc or 20 cc syringe , or an adaptation of a syringe or some other hydraulic piston and cylinder actuator . the plunger 80 has a thumb actuable piston end 82 serving as the plunger , a grip 84 and a cylinder body 86 . a valve 88 is shown at the tail end of the cylinder , although this is not needed in normal circumstances . a hydraulic line 90 , comprising a tubular sheath which can be intravenous tubing or similar , is filled with hydraulic fluid , as is the cylinder 86 , and this line leads to a proximal end cap or fitting 92 that fits onto and is secured to the tail end 54 of the handle 16 a of the clip applier 10 a . the hydraulic fluid is an internal medium in the sheath effective to transfer motion of the thumb button to motion of the linkage means and movable member , just as the internal cable in the previously described embodiment similarly acted as an internal medium . as seen in fig1 , the hydraulic line 90 is connected via a fitting 94 in this embodiment to a tail end 96 of the distal end fitting 92 , which itself comprises another hydraulic cylinder . a piston 98 within the cylinder of the end cap 92 is pushed forward when the thumb button / plunger 82 is pushed down to force hydraulic liquid out of the remote end cylinder 86 . this movement of the second piston 98 pushes forward a piston shaft 100 , which engages the tail end of a linkage member such as the advancer frame 66 shown . as described previously , this is effective to dispense and crimp a clip from the instrument 10 a . fig1 shows that the second piston 98 has seals 102 , which may be annular ridges on a rubber piston . also , the figure shows fasteners 104 which may be used to secure the proximal end fitting 92 to the tail end of the clip applier handle , and thus the remote actuator can be removable from the clip applier handle , if desired . although hydraulic actuation is described above , pneumatic actuation is also possible , with a similar arrangement of piston and cylinder , thumb button , etc ., in which case the internal medium of the tubular would be air or other gas . actuation of the clip applier can be by foot rather than using a hand operable actuator . the remote actuator can be a foot pedal ( not shown ), depressed by the person holding the clip applier . for purposes of understanding the appended claims , it should be clarified that the movable member and the linkage means could comprise a single piece , and in the claims these components are to be construed as either one piece or two . even though these components are stated as two elements in the claims , the two elements can be connected together or integral and the movable member can be considered as the forward end of that unitary piece , and the linkage member or linkage means can be considered as the rearward portion of the same piece . the above described preferred embodiments are intended to illustrate the principles of the invention , but not to limit its scope . other embodiments and variations to this preferred embodiment will be apparent to those skilled in the art and may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims .
