a mouthpiece that adjusts manually to accommodate a broad range of different size sets of upper and lower teeth in the mouth and yet seals the treatment area from oxygen exposure . the mouthpiece includes light emitting diodes and heat generating resistors all arranged in an array . a series of parallel texture bands are provides to guide and direct the light from the leds to diffuse generally evenly onto teeth to be treated . the seal arises from an inner surface of the mouthpiece titling inwardly so that a seal bead seals in the vicinity of the gum above the teeth to be treated .
during a teeth   whitening treatment in a dental office , a whitening gel is applied to the teeth and a protective barrier is placed on the gums , the mucosa and lips to prevent burning of the tissues by the high concentration of hydrogen peroxide in the whitening gel . a leading edge of the whitening gel is placed on a tooth surface . an led   based white light is placed a few inches from a tooth surface to help activate free radical oxygen , most of which becomes lost into the air . in this invention , the mouthpiece seals or encloses a photosensitive agent , such as carbamide or hydrogen peroxide gel , to prevent the loss of the active electrons of the photosensitive agent ( carbamide or hydrogen peroxide ) into the air . the mouthpiece holds led   based white light sources and alternating heat resistors . a power source , which may be remote from the mouthpiece , is in electrical connection with the led   based white light sources and heat resistors via a wire . the power source energizes the led   based white light sources and heat resistors which generate light rays and a warming heat . the light rays strike the tooth surface on the front and the edge and the back of the edge , i . e ., in all directions , while the mouthpiece is in its intended position relative to the tooth surface . further , a “ closed system ” created by the mouthpiece or guard that seals or encloses ( against exposure to the atmosphere ) is efficient for keeping the active free radical oxygen in close proximity to the teeth to enable their movement onto the tooth surface to breakdown the color pigments inside the tooth . a much lower concentration of the carbamide or hydrogen peroxide gel may be used in comparison to what would be needed to achieve like results in an “ open system ” that did not seal or enclose the photosensitive agent ( carbamide or hydrogen peroxide ) from exposure to atmosphere . indeed , the whitening device ( mouthpiece ) of the present invention may be used for seven to ten consecutive days with little to no sensitivity to the teeth and gums . this seven to ten consecutive day use constitutes a higher frequency of use than is available in conventional professional whitening techniques and helps avoid a regression phenomenon that has been observed in the professional whitening technique . the mouthpiece 10 adjusts to a broad range of user dental arch sizes ( curvature attributed to lower or upper sets of teeth ). it also distributes light and heat in a controlled and focused fashion and provides a means of sealing an area being treated from exposure to oxygen . the heat generated from the alternating heat resistors molds the thermoplastic material of the mouthpiece , i . e ., tpr rubber or medical grade silicone , to the user &# 39 ; s anatomy and creates the closed system around the formulations , preventing oxygen escape , and thus lower wear time , and thus lower sensitivity for the user . referring to fig1 and 2 , the mouthpiece 10 includes upper and lower edges 11 , 13 ( fig2 ) and a bite surface 12 formed of segments . the bite surface 12 is perpendicular to the main body 14 . the bite surface is also central with respect to the main body 14 , with substantially equal portions of the main body 14 above and below the bite surface 12 as seen in fig2 and 4 . referring to fig2 , the mouthpiece 10 is formed of a clear , elastomeric , molded outer shape 14 that encases a flexible circuit board 22 , light emitting diodes 24 and heat generating resistors 26 . there is a deformable frame 28 that holds the circuit board 22 during fabrication and may be bent by the user to adjust the orientation of the mouthpiece 10 to set the arch for comfort in the user &# 39 ; s mouth . the bite surface 12 is preferably segmented as shown in fig1 to help facilitate the adjustability of the mouthpiece 10 to mouths of differing dimensions . additionally , adjustability of the mouthpiece 10 to the shape of the arch of the user is facilitated when the heat generating resistors 26 are activated . this is because the heat so generated softens the mouthpiece 10 and increases its malleability , thereby allowing it to be bent and flexed to conform to the particular configuration of the user &# 39 ; s arch . a series of super bright light emitting diodes ( leds ) 24 and heat generating resistors 26 are arrayed on an inner , lingual side of the flexible circuit board 22 . the power cord 20 is centrally attached to the outer surface . looking at fig2 , there are 3 rows of elements , with the top and bottom rows preferably entirely including heat generating resistors 26 and with the middle row preferably entirely consisting of leds 24 . as shown in fig4 and 5 , the leds 24 are preferably coplanar with the bite surface 12 . a parallel series of textured bands 16 , whose surface texture resembles elongated convex surfaces configured to channel led light , are formed on the lingual side of the outer shape 14 for the purposes of led light diffusion over the surface of the tooth being treated . referring to fig3 a , areas between the segmented bite surfaces 12 allow the device to open as in fig3 b or close as in fig3 c . referring to fig4 , an inner surface 30 of the mouthpiece 10 tilts inward at an angle of 5 to 15 degrees as noted by b to seal the seal bead 18 and borders the edge of the mouthpiece 10 . referring to fig5 , the inward tilt of the inner surface 30 allows the seal bead 18 to contact the gum above the tooth . this contact provides a barrier seal to both retain the whitening gel and to prevent oxygen from entering the treatment area of the tooth ( that is to be treated with the whitening gel ). the light 32 emitted by the leds 24 is guided and directed to more evenly illuminate the surface of the teeth 34 by the textured bands 16 . the texture of the textured bands 16 provides surfaces that are closer to perpendicular to the light path and less reflective than the generally polished surface of the mouthpiece . the light 32 emitted by the leds 24 is directed through the clear material of the main body 14 into both the spaces above and below the bite surface 12 as shown in fig5 . while the foregoing description and drawings represent the preferred embodiments of the present invention , it will be understood that various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention .
