the invention relates to a device for damping an upper suspension part in at least one spatial direction with respect to a lower suspension part movable relative thereto , wherein a spring apparatus which acts between the upper suspension part and the lower suspension part is provided for damping , wherein an actuating element is provided by way of which a force can be introduced into the device bidirectionally in the operating direction of the spring apparatus , wherein the actuating element is actuable via a control apparatus .
in this respect , the device comprises an upper suspension face 1 and a lower suspension face 2 , between which a spring means 3 is arranged . in the present case , the spring means 3 consists of a scissor   type support apparatus 6 and of a spring 5 in the form of an air spring , by means of which movements in a vertical direction z can be damped . in this respect the scissor   type support apparatus 6 consists of a first scissors 10 and a second scissors 13 . the first scissors 10 consists of a first inner link 7 and a first outer link 8 , these being interconnected so as to be pivotable with respect to one another approximately in the centres thereof . the second scissors 13 consists of a second inner link 11 and a second outer link 12 , which are likewise interconnected so as to be pivotable with respect to one another approximately in the centres thereof . the lower ends of the first inner link 7 and the second inner link 11 are arranged on a floating bearing transverse connection 24 , which is mounted in fixed bearings 25 arranged fixedly on the lower suspension face 2 . at the upper ends thereof , the first inner link 7 and the second inner link 11 are interconnected by means of an additional floating bearing transverse connection 31 , at the ends of which there are rollers 32 which are guided in guide rails 26 and 28 arranged on the upper vehicle face . analogously , at the upper ends thereof , the first outer link 8 and the second outer link 12 are mounted in fixed bearings 25 ′ arranged on the upper suspension face by means of a floating bearing transverse connection 24 ′. at the lower ends thereof , the first outer link 8 and the second outer link 12 are interconnected via a further floating bearing transverse connection 30 , rollers 33 , which are guided in guide rails 27 and 29 arranged on the lower suspension face 2 , being arranged at the ends of the floating bearing transverse connection 30 . by means of the entire spring apparatus 6 , in this respect the distance between the upper suspension face 1 and the lower suspension face 2 can be varied by force input , for example if a force is applied to the device arranged in a vehicle seat by a person sitting down on the vehicle seat . since during operation of the device in a vehicle seat oscillations due to irregularities in the road surface on which the vehicle is moving or due to displacement of the weight of the person sitting on the seat vary the force introduced to the device according to the invention during operation of the vehicle , an actuating element 4 , by means of which the externally introduced force input into the device can be countered , is provided for compensating this force input . in the present embodiment , the actuating element 4 consists of a drive 23 in the form of a rotary field magnet 14 , by means of which a coupling rod 16 in the form of a recirculating ball screw 15 can be moved back and forth . for this purpose , the recirculating ball screw 15 comprises , on the circumference thereof , a screw having a screw pitch of approximately 45 °. the drive 23 in the form of a rotary field magnet 14 is arranged fixedly on the lower suspension face 2 , whilst the coupling rod 16 is arranged on the floating bearing transverse connection 30 via a fixing element 22 . to make it possible to detect movements and accelerations of the upper suspension face 1 with respect to the lower suspension face 2 , a movement sensor 19 , in this case in the form of an angle sensor , and an acceleration sensor 20 are provided . by means of these sensors 19 and 20 , the intensity of the introduction of force and the distance or deviations , respectively from a predetermined distance between the upper suspension part 1 and the lower suspension part 2 can be established . in this respect , the data detected by the sensors 19 and 20 can be passed on to a control apparatus ( not shown here ), which supplies the drive 23 or the rotary field magnet 14 with current and voltage on the basis of the data supplied by the sensors 19 and 20 , in such a way that an introduction of force can be countered or promoted , in such a way that the entire system is always urged to take on the predetermined zero position thereof . a zero position of this type is shown for example in fig6 b , whilst fig6 a shows the maximum deflection of the entire system in the positive z or vertical direction and fig6 c shows the maximum deflection of the entire system in the negative z or vertical direction , respectively . to damp the oscillation introduced into the device according to the invention by the spring apparatus 3 after a force is applied , a shock absorber 21 is provided , one end of which is likewise arranged on the floating bearing transverse connection 30 , whilst the other end thereof is arranged in the upper region of the first inner link 7 of the first scissors . fig7 shows a possible embodiment of an actuating element 4 . in this respect , the actuating element 4 consists of the drive 23 in the form of a rotary field magnet 14 , by means of which the coupling rod 16 in the form of a recirculating ball screw 15 can be moved back and forth . in the present embodiment , the screw pitch of the recirculating ball screw 15 is approximately 45 °, it being possible to produce a stroke of 7 cm when rotating the recirculating ball screw by 180 ° and a stroke of 14 cm when rotating the recirculating ball screw by 360 °. fig8 is a graph of this stroke / revolution ratio . fig9 , however , shows a further embodiment of a possible actuating element 4 for a device according to the invention . in contrast with the actuating element 4 from fig7 , in this respect , the coupling rod 16 in the form of a recirculating ball screw 15 comprises two spring elements 17 and 18 . these spring elements 17 and 18 ensure that they are initially biased when a force is introduced into the device according to the invention and that subsequently the rotational movement of the coupling rod 16 in the form of a recirculating ball screw 15 is introduced . as a result of this coupling by means of the spring elements 17 and 18 , permanent entrainment of the drive 23 in the form of a rotary field magnet 14 in rotation can be prevented , in particular in the high   frequency or short   stroke operating range , respectively of the device according to the invention . the spring characteristic of the spring elements 17 and 18 are superposed with the spring characteristic 42 of the spring 5 . in this respect , the usable field of forces consists of the spring rate of the spring 5 , the spring rate of the spring elements 17 and 18 and the force spectrum of the drive 23 in form of a rotary field magnet 14 . fig1 is a corresponding force   deflection diagram for the actuating element 4 in accordance with fig7 , while fig1 is a corresponding force   deflection diagram of the actuating element 4 from fig9 and 10 . as already mentioned , in this respect , reference numeral 43 denotes the spring characteristic of the springs 17 and 18 and reference numeral 42 denotes the spring characteristic of the spring 5 . further , a target level line 40 is shown in the graphs , and which is taken on by the device according to the invention when a predetermined weight or a predetermined force , respectively is applied thereto . for example , the deflection of the upper suspension part 1 or the change in distance , respectively between the upper suspension part 1 and the lower suspension part 2 is approximately 90 mm for an applied force of 1000 n . in this respect , in the present embodiment , fig6 b shows the deflection of 90 mm , whilst fig6 a shows a deflection of 0 mm and fig6 c shows a deflection of 180 mm . in the two force   deflection diagrams of fig1 and 12 , reference numeral 41 indicates a target force line , to represent the force of 1000 n . the target force line 41 and the target level line 40 intersect at an intersection point , through which the spring characteristics 42 of the spring 5 and the spring characteristic 43 of the spring elements 17 and 18 also pass . in this respect , reference numerals 44 and 45 indicate an upper force line and a lower force line . in this respect the upper force line 44 denotes the force which can be introduced by the actuating element 4 in addition to the force acting on the device , whilst the lower force line 45 indicates a force which counters the force introduced into the device . in the present embodiment , this force to be additionally introduced is approximately 200 n . thus , by means of the device according to the invention , in particular as shown in fig1 to 5 , an actuating element 4 in accordance with fig7 or in accordance with fig9 and 10 , respectively being installed , the deviation of the upper suspension face 4 from the target level line 7 can be minimised during the operation of the device according to the invention , in such a way that a vehicle seat equipped therewith substantially maintains the position thereof about this target level line 9 , with optimum suspension comfort and damping comfort .
