Assured Service Quality by Improved Fault Management
Service-Oriented Event Correlation
Andreas Hanemann
Munich Network Management
Team
Leibniz Supercomputing
Center
Barer Str. 21, D-80333
Munich, Germany
hanemann@lrz.de
Martin Sailer
Munich Network Management
Team
University of Munich (LMU)
Oettingenstr. 67, D-80538
Munich, Germany
sailer@nm.ifi.lmu.de
David Schmitz
Munich Network Management
Team
Leibniz Supercomputing
Center
Barer Str. 21, D-80333
Munich, Germany
schmitz@lrz.de
ABSTRACT
The paradigm shift from device-oriented to service-oriented
management has also implications to the area of event 
correlation. Today"s event correlation mainly addresses the 
correlation of events as reported from management tools. 
However, a correlation of user trouble reports concerning services
should also be performed. This is necessary to improve the
resolution time and to reduce the effort for keeping the 
service agreements. We refer to such a type of correlation as
service-oriented event correlation. The necessity to use this
kind of event correlation is motivated in the paper.
To introduce service-oriented event correlation for an IT
service provider, an appropriate modeling of the correlation
workflow and of the information is necessary. Therefore, we
examine the process management frameworks IT 
Infrastructure Library (ITIL) and enhanced Telecom Operations Map
(eTOM) for their contribution to the workflow modeling in
this area. The different kinds of dependencies that we find
in our general scenario are then used to develop a 
workflow for the service-oriented event correlation. The MNM
Service Model, which is a generic model for IT service 
management proposed by the Munich Network Management
(MNM) Team, is used to derive an appropriate information
modeling. An example scenario, the Web Hosting Service
of the Leibniz Supercomputing Center (LRZ), is used to
demonstrate the application of service-oriented event 
correlation.
Categories and Subject Descriptors
C.2.4 [Computer Systems Organization]: 
ComputerCommunication Networks-Distributed Applications
General Terms
Management, Performance, Reliability
