Finally, the introductory IT course must also provide 
a basic coverage of SQL, because the web design course, which 
covers n tier architectures and requires a basic knowledge of SQL, 
is taught before the data management course in which SQL is 
normally presented.
Section 2 provides 
more details about the IT fundamentals knowledge area, while 
section 3 discusses the introduction to IT course offered at 
Georgia Southern University.
The IT Model Curriculum follows the example set by the 
Computer Science model curriculum (http://www.acm.org/ 
education/curricula.html) and distinguishes between a number of 
knowledge areas, each consisting of a number of knowledge units.
For reasons explained in ([4]), the IT model curriculum 
differs from the computer science model curriculum in that it 
distinguishes between core learning outcomes, which every 
graduate from an IT program is expected to achieve, and elective 
learning outcomes, which only graduates specializing in this area 
are expected to achieve.
Students typically start taking courses in 
their second discipline early in their program of study (the 
standard program of study suggests that students take their 
first second discipline course in the first semester of their 
sophomore year).
One fortunate 
side effect of the need to introduce a second discipline is that 
it gives the program an excellent opportunity to make 
students aware of the broad range of areas in which IT can be 
applied and, hence, cover ITF5 (application domains); 
however, since the number of second disciplines is large 
(currently, 26), adequate coverage requires 4.5 hours more 
than the minimum recommend coverage for ITF 5 
(application domains)
3.  One lecture hour is missing in ITF3 (history of IT) due to
lack of coverage in the IT 1130 course of significant changes 
in HCI (ITF3.3).
For example, the 
introductory web design course includes among its course 
objectives that students develop the ability to design Web 
pages in accordance with good design principles using 
appropriate styles and formats and the ability to design Web 
pages that are ADA compliant.
Shelley, G., Vermaat, M. and Cashman, T. Discovering
Computers 2005: A Gateway to Information.
