In fact, looking at the placement of CS programs in academic 
institutions around the U.S. illustrates the debate that swirled 
around the discipline as its core was being defined.
The National Information Assurance Education and Training 
Partnership (NIETP) program is a partnership among government, 
academia and industry focused on advancing information 
assurance education, training, and awareness.
The National
1
Under Executive Order (E.O.) 13231 of October 16, 2001, Critical
Infrastructure Protection in the Information Age, the President 
redesigned the National Security Telecommunications and Information 
Systems Security Committee (NSTISSC) as the Committee on National 
Security Systems (CNSS)
8
Training Standard for Information Security Risk Analysts will be 
released soon.
The NSTISSI CNSSI standards referenced above have been used 
to develop in service training and education opportunities for 
enlisted and civilian employees in an effort to assure quality 
preparation of professionals entrusted with securing our critical 
information.
In order to be eligible to apply 
for CAEIAE certification, an institution must first demonstrate 
that it teaches the content covered in NSTISSI 4011   The 
National Training Standard for Information Systems Security 
Professionals.
Once the naming issue was resolved, the SIGITE curriculum 
committee struggled to find a model for IAS that could
.  be understood by freshman IT students 
.  provide a framework to integrate IAS concepts that are
integrated into nearly all of the other KAs
.  be rich enough to support a senior level course that ties
everything together.
In early 2003, the SIGITE curriculum committee divided into 
working groups around the knowledge areas defined by [3] to 
make an initial cut at the list of topics for each KA.
The authors would like to thank the ACM Education committee 
for their support of the IT2005 effort, especially Russ 
Shackleford, without whose financial support and encouragement 
the document would be years away from completion.
