Consequently
V''
ocking ([18]) has suggested the always go left strategy
, which (in combination with a properly chosen oblivious
polling strategy) only requires a total number of
O(loglog n)
in order to achieve a constant competitive ratio.
In the case
of unit size tasks and a single poll per task, the result of
Gonnet [10] has proved that for m  n the maximum load
is (1 + o(1))
ln
n
lnln
n
when the poll of each task is chosen iur
from the n machines, whp.
1
In [15] an explicit form for the
expected maximum load is given for all combinations of n
and m.
The main tools used in the literature for this problem have
been the layered induction, the witness tree argument and
the method of fluid models (a comprehensive presentation
of these techniques may be found in the very good survey
of Mitzenmacher et al. [14]).
The
case of Limited Information has attracted little attention
up to this point: some recent works ([12, 13, 8]) study the
case of each task having a single poll, for its assignment
to one of the (possibly related) machines when the probability
distributions of the tasks comprise a Nash Equilibrium
.
Finally we propose a haps scheduler (
ADAPT ) that combines
the previous hops scheduler with a classical guessing
2
Note that this does not imply preemption of tasks which is
not allowed in our setting, but rather the event that a task
hits slower machines that are already overloaded and thus
has to assign itself to a faster machine.
As it will become clear later by the analysis, if this was not
the case then it could only be in favour of the oblivious
scheduler that we propose, because this would allow the absorption
of the large additive constants in the performance
guarantee of the scheduler.
Let W () denote the
total amount of work assigned during stage , while R()
denotes the amount of remaining work at the end of stage
.
The author wishes to thank Paul Spirakis for valuable
discussions during the write up of the paper and also for
suggesting an appropriate terminology on the categorization
of polling strategies.
