Research labs armed with microarrays have been able to
partake in a range of studies, including finding gene function
[35; 36; 37]; correcting mistaken database annotations
[36; 7]; performing linkage analyses; determining specific
genes involved in biological pathways; identifying genes that
are important at certain times of development (or that are
turned on/off over a course of treatment); elucidating gene
regulatory networks [13]; diagnosing disease in tissue sam Figure
1: The relationship between low level and high level
microarray analysis.
In contrast to these so called high level problems, low level
microarray analysis [19] is concerned with the preceding step
in the microarray assay cycle (Figure 1)   given raw data
straight from a scanner which has no direct biological interpretation
, clean and summarize this data to produce the
biologically meaningful parameter estimates (such as expression
level estimates) that are later used in high level analyses
.
In our view, classical statistics is generative
, dealing with relatively low dimensional data and parameter
spaces, while machine learning is often discriminative
in nature and explicitly addresses computational issues
in high dimensional data analysis.
The story is not all good. [10] tells us that while unlabeled
data may be useful, labeled examples are exponentially more
valuable in a suitable sense. [43] tells us that unlabeled data
may lead the transductive SVM to maximize the wrong margin
, and in [42] it is shown that unlabeled data may in fact
degrade classifier performance under certain conditions relating
the risk and empirical risk.
The ROC Convex Hull
method, on the other hand, relates expected cost optimality
to conditions on relative misclassification cost and class size,
so that the typical case of semi dominance (as in Figure 3)
can be handled in a principled way   rather than selecting
p value thresholds by hand, end users are provided with the
right classifier and thresholds by the method.
A simple unsupervised approach to training a genotyper
is to ignore available labels during training, instead using
these labels to subsequently assess the trade off between accuracy
and no call rate for the trained model.
While Low level Problem 5 focuses on the determination of
genotype at a position known in advance to be polymorphic,
the problem described in this section concerns locating such
polymorphic sites in the first place.
It is often the case
that, based on previous research, an investigator will be interested
in detailed study of variation in a particular genomic
region (say on the order of tens or hundreds of kilo bases
) and wants to re sequence this region in a large number
of individuals.
