Theory, Management
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for
personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are
not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies
bear this notice and the full citation on the first page.
Indeed, P2P systems offer transparent access
to the data stored at (the sources of) each peer p, by
means of the global schema equipped with p for modeling
its domain of interest; moreover, pair of peers with the same
domain of interest one peer and the system is in charge of
accessing each peer containing relevant data separately, and
combining local results into a global answer by suitably exploiting
the mapping rules.
P2P systems can be considered the natural evolution of
traditional data integration systems, which have received
considerable attention in the last few years, and which have
already become a key technology for managing enormous
amounts of information dispersed over many data sources.
In this paper, we continue along this latter line of research,
by investigating some important theoretical issues.
Despite the wide interest in this field, none of the approaches
in the literature considered the issue of modeling the autonomy
of the peers in providing a semantics for the system,
and therefore they implicitly assume that all the peers act
cooperatively in the network.
Notice that in the definition above we are considering
sound mappings: data retrieved from the sources by the
mapping views are assumed to be a subset of the data that
satisfy the corresponding global relation.
Thus, a P2P system may be unsatisfiable
w.r.t. a source database
D. In this section, we face the problem
of solving inconsistencies in P2P systems.
Nicola Leone, Thomas Eiter, Wolfgang Faber, Michael
Fink, Georg Gottlob, Gianluigi Greco, Giovambattista
Ianni, Edyta Kalka, Domenico Lembo, Maurizio
Lenzerini, Vincenzino Lio, Bartosz Nowicki, Riccardo
Rosati, Marco Ruzzi, Witold Staniszkis, and Giorgio
Terracina.
