Finally, the introductory IT course must also provide 
a basic coverage of SQL, because the web design course, which 
covers n tier architectures and requires a basic knowledge of SQL, 
is taught before the data management course in which SQL is 
normally presented.
Section 2 provides 
more details about the IT fundamentals knowledge area, while 
section 3 discusses the introduction to IT course offered at 
Georgia Southern University.
For reasons explained in ([4]), the IT model curriculum 
differs from the computer science model curriculum in that it 
distinguishes between core learning outcomes, which every 
graduate from an IT program is expected to achieve, and elective 
learning outcomes, which only graduates specializing in this area 
are expected to achieve.
Table 1 provides a breakdown of the topics covered 
in the remaining 33 hours of instruction, the number of lecture 
hours spent on that topic, as well as the learning outcome in the 
IT fundamentals knowledge area of the model curriculum to 
which the topic corresponds.
One fortunate 
side effect of the need to introduce a second discipline is that 
it gives the program an excellent opportunity to make 
students aware of the broad range of areas in which IT can be 
applied and, hence, cover ITF5 (application domains); 
however, since the number of second disciplines is large 
(currently, 26), adequate coverage requires 4.5 hours more 
than the minimum recommend coverage for ITF 5 
(application domains)
3.  One lecture hour is missing in ITF3 (history of IT) due to
lack of coverage in the IT 1130 course of significant changes 
in HCI (ITF3.3).
Second, to support the teaching of Topics 3 (components of IT 
systems), 4 (core technologies) and 7 (history of IT), we use 
Discovering Computers 2005 ([9]).
The IT Fundamentals knowledge area in the IT model curriculum 
is of central importance to the design of an introductory IT course; 
however, since institutions will have to include additional 
materials in their introductory IT courses, depending on the nature 
of their program, the minimum requirement of 33 lecture hours to 
cover this material is likely to lead to problems.
Shelley, G., Vermaat, M. and Cashman, T. Discovering
Computers 2005: A Gateway to Information.
